This is my AI assistant, Ada. And she could do a lot of cool things. Whether it's controlling my home, doing some shopping for me on the web, or a whole lot of other stuff. But Ada does have one big problem. Every time we ask to do something, she needs to operate on Wi-Fi. So, she sends our prompt to Google's big data centers. We have to wait for a little bit and then we eventually get a reply back. The problem with this is one, she needs the internet to work. Also, our prompts are not private. And lastly, if you use this enough, it ends up not being free anymore and you have to pay. So today, we're going to make a new AI assistant that's 100% local, 100% private, and 100% free. So the first step in building our AI assistant is pick an open source model. So I started with these three choices, Gemma 3, Quen [music] 3, or DeepSeek R1. And each of these three open- source models comes [music] in different sizes, which are measured in parameters. In most cases, the more parameters a model has, the smarter it is. But also, the more parameter a model does have, the more resource intensive it's going to be. So, a very rough estimate is 1 billion parameters is equal to about 1 GB of VRAM. So, to start off with, I decide I'm going to pick a model between 1 billion and 2 billion parameters. And that's because my GPU only has about 8 GB of RAM. And if you take away the RAM that my operating system already uses, we only have about 6 GB of RAM to work with. So, we have to be very strategic on the models that we're choosing. So, these are the three models and sizes that I want to test. So, I went ahead and wrote a test script that's going to test the model in four different [music] areas. And we're going to be measuring accuracy, how much VRAM the models are taking up, and lastly, the latency, how long we have to wait before [music] the model starts typing up the answer. Okay, so after running the test, the results are kind of weird. So, first each model performed great for accuracy. All of them scored 90% or higher with Quen 3 scoring the highest with 95%. But also Quen 3 being the largest model, it took almost 2 GB of VRAM. And with Gemma 3 and Deepseek only a little more than 1 GB of VRAM. But what really surprised me was the latency test. Deepseek and Quen both took about 100 milliseconds, but Gemma 3 took twice as long, which is a little weird just because it's a smaller model. I would assume it will be the fastest. But with that, it really cuts down on options to either Deep Seek or Quinn. But one cool thing about DeepSeek and Quinn is that they're both thinking models, which means that they could kind of think through problems. So, I'm curious to see how each of those models perform if I run the same exact test, but with thinking on. So after running the test with thinking on both models did perform better on accuracy, Quen scored 100% and DeepC got one more question right with 95%. But the main downfall of using Thinking is how long it takes the model to respond. It took Quen 3,700 milliseconds to respond back and it took Deepseek 1,900 milliseconds to reply back. But in comparison, Quen 3 performed better on accuracy and is faster. So that's going to be the model that we're using for this project. But now we kind of have a problem. Are we going to use Quen 3 with thinking or without thinking? But I thought about it and I said, why not use both? So, we could first send a users prompt through a small quick model and that quick model then decides to send it to either the Quen version that is thinking or the Quen version that is not thinking. And at first, I thought I came up with some new brilliant architecture AI, but I did some research and this is just called routing. You have one AI that is smart enough to send specific prompts to a more specialized AI model. And thankfully, I already have a model in mind to do the job, [music] and that's Gemma. We're not using any version of Gemma. We're using a specific version of Gemma called Function Gemma. And what makes Function Gemma so special is that one, it's super small, only 270 million parameters, and also it was specifically trained [music] to output functions. And if you don't know what a function is, it's just a tiny snippet of code that can be ran to execute a task. So, first to get a baseline, I wrote a script that's going to test the model on about 21 different variations of whether to think or not to think. And I'm not expecting it to do well because in the model's documentation, it says you are supposed to fine-tune the model on your own actual functions. So, let's just see how it does. And okay, to no one's surprise, the model performed bad as we expected. It scored a 52% getting 11 out of 21 questions right. And the average routing time was about 1,700 milliseconds, which is [music] pretty slow. So now we're going to train the model. So basically gather a whole bunch of examples on what your input is and what the model should say. And I did that with a total of 200 examples, 100 for non-thinking, 100 for thinking. We're going to train the model on this and then we're going to see how it does. So the train model did a lot better. It scored a 95% getting 20 out of 21 right. And also the average routing time was 1,000 milliseconds which is [music] pretty fast. So if we do a quick VRAM check, we know our operating system takes about 2.1 GB of VRAM. And now with Function Gemma combined with Quen 3, we're using another 2.3 GB of VRAM, which means we only have about 3.5 GB of RAM left. So we're starting to cut it close and we still need to be able to speak to it and for it to speak back. So let's set that up. Well, first let's handle text to speech. And the model we're going to use for this is called Piper TTS. And what makes Piper TTS so good is one, it's ran on the CPU, not the GPU. So we can run this and it's not going to slow down our quen 3 and function demo. But also, usually if you run a model on your CPU, it's slow, but Piper is insanely fast. [music] So if we go ahead and run our demo file, let's just say type in hello and let's see. >> Hello. >> Okay, nice to see you today. That's That's pretty fast. Let's add the little harder question. Let's see if it thinks. Explain inverse kinematics. All right, we see the thinking coming up. Perfect. >> Inverse kinematics is the process of determining the joint angles of a robotic arm or mechanism required to achieve a specific end effect to position and orientation. >> Okay, so it's fast. The voice sounds it sounds half decent. I mean, we'll work with what we have. So now we need to add two things. is we need to add a wake word and we also need to add speech to text. So if you guys have been watching the channel for any amount of time, you will know my go-to wake word is ada. But in order to do this locally, I'll have to train a speech to text model on me saying ADA a trillion times. [music] And honestly, I really don't want to do that, especially because all my code is open source. As soon as I release it, you guys always ask, "How do I change the wake word name? Does the name have to be Ada?" So instead, we're going to use a pre-trained model that uses a wake word that hopefully everyone is happy with, which is Jarvis. So the way this is going to work is that as soon as I say Jarvis, the wake word model is going to flag the speech to text model to start converted my speech to text. Once that speech is converted to text, it's going to go to function Gemma. Function Gemma is going to say, "Hey, is this a thinking question or a non-thinking question?" It's going to send that to Quinn. Quinn is going to give us our answer and that answer is going to be converted to speech. All right. So, we activated speech text and I'm talking. As you can see, nothing's happening. But as soon as I say, Jarvis, how are you? >> It listens. >> How's everything going? >> Beautiful. Jarvis, explain AI to me. It does the thinking. AI artificial intelligence is a technology that allows machines to perform tasks that would typically require human intelligence like learning, reasoning, or problem solving. >> All right, so it works and it works pretty well, but there's no user interface. There's no GUI. If it was up to me, I would have just reused my ADA GUI. But we have a problem. We're already using 56% of our RAM and the ADA GUI is very, very resource intensive. is completely modular, has a whole bunch of animations, it has hand and gesture control. It's just too much for a local AI. So, we're gonna remake the GUI with the focus on one being lightweight and two having a lot of features that Jarvis can directly interact with. Also, if you guys have been liking the content, make sure you like the video and if you want to see more of this type of stuff, subscribe to the channel. So, when designing a user interface, the first thing I thought about what are the daily tasks that I struggle with that I'm going to need help with. And the first thing is obvious. I suck at planning things. So I split the planning tab up into multiple sections. The first a regular to-do list. So let's say if I need to do shopping, I could add that to my to-do list. I could complete it. I could uncomplete something and I could also delete. The next thing that I wanted to add was just adding things to calendar. So you have your calendar and then let's say dinner. We set the time for later in the day. Set it. We say it's personal. And boom, we have dinner. Then the last two things is pretty simple. A simple timer and then also set an alarm so I can wake up in the morning. The next thing I wanted to add was just keeping up with news and current events. So I wrote a custom script that runs in the background and it checks for news and it also pulls the top 10 or so headlines. And then of course I made sure to add smart home control. So we can turn on and off the lights and also change the colors. So now our UI has all this functionality, but how do we get drivers to control it? And that's honestly the easy part because we already done it. So originally we trained function gem just on two functions, thinking or non-thinking. But what if we trained it on turn on the lights or add this task or add this event to my calendar? So, I put together about 10 functions for me to retrain function Gemma on so it can have complete control over everything that the UI could do. So, let's put it all together and let's test it. Jarvis, add buy groceries to my to-do list. >> Added by groceries to your [music] to-do list. >> Nice. Jarvis, set an alarm for 8 a.m. >> Alarm set for 8 [music] a.m. >> Jarvis, set a timer for 1 minute. >> Timer set for 1 minute. >> Jarvis, anything important happening on the news. >> The top news includes Trump's potential [music] visits to Denmark and seven countries. A red purple star sapphire from Sri Lanka a for scandal [music] and I see unrest impacting 2026 races. >> Jarvis, can you go ahead and turn off the lights in the office? >> Nice. >> I'll turn off the office lights. >> Nice. [music] Jarvis, can you turn on the office lights? I'll turn on the office lights. >> Jarvis, [music] change the office lights color to blue. >> I'll change the office lights to blue. >> So, those are the main features. Also, the one thing that I really wanted to add that I just could not get to work was the browser agent. But if by any chance you are interested in the browser agent, you want to see it working completely, doing [music] some shopping for me, doing some research for me, you can check out this video of Ada because the browser agent is working perfectly Here.