Hey everyone. Uh, in this video I'm going to demo something I've been building. Uh, it's an agentic uh, AI sock analyst. Uh, it automatically analyzes logs from Azure log analytics um, and performs threat hunting on demand. Um, but before I show it in action, I just want to give you a quick note on the environment that I'm running. Uh so this demo runs against a controlled Azure honeypot lab that I have. Uh it's built specifically for detection engineering and threat hunting practice. Um the environment automatically executes attack simulations uh things like reconnaissance, discovery attacks, probing, all of those kinds of things. Um, but as you can see, we can take a look at our incidents over here as well. But yeah, that's that's the environment that this uh Agentic AI is running against. So, let's go ahead and take a look. All right. So, I'll go ahead and start the application. All right, the agent's uh booting up. It introduces itself. So, what would you like to do? Let's see. Have there been any data exfiltration attacks in the past 24 hours. All right. So, you'll see the agent immediately breaks the task down. um it interprets the request. Uh it identifies which log sources it's going to need. It then constructs a KQL query and uh then it uh queries Azure Log Analytics and as you can see it's returned 14,631 records. It's crazy. Um, but now it's going to go ahead and generate the results for us. It usually doesn't take too long. Uh, it looks like it took 41 seconds and it found one potential threat for us. So, we just hit enter and we can see the report that it's created. All right, we'll go over this uh together. This is just for proof of concept. I didn't want to open it up to too many different threats, but um here is its structured findings. We have the titles confirmed data xfiltration via PowerShell gives us a bit more a of a description. Tells us how confident it is. It even breaks down the MITER attack framework that it's gone through. Uh tactic is excfiltration, the technique is excfiltration over web service. Sub techchnique, it really goes down into uh details for us. And then it gives us the exact log lines, the indicators of compromise as well, some tags for us, and then it even gives us some recommendations. It tells us to create an incident to escalate and pivot. Some notes uh clear evidence of cross-host scriptbased exfiltration to public controlled cloud storage script acquisition via GitHub and consistent usage pattern strengthens attribution. Um, so that's just a quick walkthrough of uh my Agentic AI sock analyst uh running against my live Azure honeypot. Um, I'm going to continue to work on it um some more with some hopefully more advanced detection logic [snorts] and automated response capabilities. Um, but yeah, that's it. Thanks,