All right. Hey everyone, welcome to another episode of Iron Insights. Uh, I got a special guest here, Adam Malotti of A Storm is Coming LLC. Adam, thanks for joining us. Where you calling from? >> Well, I'm down here in sunny Orlando, Florida. Love you down here. And quite honestly, it's one of the hubs for some of the scams and craziness that's going out there. So, I feel like it's place to be. Tech Center. >> Love that. Uh, we just got some snow up here in New York, so I'd much rather be down there right now. Yeah, I can't wait to put Christmas lights on a palm tree this year. So, >> yeah, they just got Exactly. It's a little different. They just put the the tree into Rock Center right now. So, we're uh we're getting ready for the holiday season. Yeah. Already before Thanksgiving. So, >> uh Yeah. So, thanks for hopping on. You have a really interesting background. Why don't you tell our listeners, you know, um a little bit about your background? >> Sure. I was actively recruited by the military uh before I was even 17 years old. They signed me up and wanted me to become a pilot, but I'm a little color blind. So, I took sonar, which is the second highest sign on bonus I could. And got into the weapons department, a little top secret clearance. Saw the world twice. And before the age of 21, I was already a war veteran. It was good stuff back then. Um, maybe the wrong war, but hey, teach your own. Just went home and >> thank you for your service. >> Thank you. Yeah, the other day was a free food day at Applebee's. It was yeah well worth those four years. But I was blessed with uh learning everything about frequency and uh sound and the way that computers work down at component level. Um they really gave me a trial under fire on everything that has to do with systems integrations working with teams and it was like the start of my cyber security journey and I had no idea it was was good. Uh, from there I went to get a real job. I sold cars for nine and a half years at Chevrolet out there in Beaverton, Oregon. Shout out to Car Chevrolet. Good people. Uh, I was an internet sales manager and before AI was even a thing, I was making like constant customer contact campaigns and trying to have an automation system that responded within like a minute, minute and a half while they showed their computers. So, I did fairly well. Uh then from there I went to >> Yeah. >> So I mean so you went from you went from sonar to really uh sales. >> Yeah. >> And it sounds like you have this this interest in computers and making things more efficient and and that kind of led you towards building your own type of I guess programs to to optimize things. >> Yeah. After I quit X um car Chevrolet on July 4th, 2014, I went to Xfinity and I started selling security back when the apps were starting to come out. >> I realized Xfinity, bless their hearts, weren't integral with other products. Um so I would go home and I would tinker with stuff. I started with like Alexa. Then I got into like, you know, making my own systems um to make things work together. And from there it was uh just four years later when in 2022 that I started my own company, A Storm is Coming LLC. And >> so so tell me. Yeah. So tell me it's such an interesting pivot and I think it kind of naturally came for you to start your own company if you're building your own you're building your own stuff, right? So >> yeah restrictions. >> Yeah. Right. Right. This that you can be your own boss now. Uh so so what are you guys focusing on right now? Well, the main storefront you can find things like AI. There's 18 different levels from chat bots, task bots, agents, super agents, and then it gets a little convoluted with the dynamic, underscriptive, hierarchal, orchestrative, and even a couple swarms available. >> But my main focus has been cyber security. It's I've always done training start. >> Yeah. Hey, welcome. I'm home. This is before the AI even became a thing. I was doing cyber security consultancy. So, this was kind of like the original thought. >> I would help people protect their lives. And uh I was lucky enough to be involved in some nice network admin stuff and some simple little consulting gigs for a while. But then when AI became a big thing, it my focus became dead sharp. The name of the company is the storm is coming. I think that once AI came like the storm had already started >> like AI just wasn't just defenders it was helping the attackers. So uh I recently about half a year eight months ago I guess created high hats which like the sound of a germ is a combination of a red and a blue team hacker team done by AI and yes it is AI but it's human in the loop. I believe in provenence and governance above all else because if you kind of let them go seems a little sketchy still and this is uh something that Cisco was like warning us about about a year ago and it's definitely here. These guys are out there doing like 24/7 attacks and they're using the old school stuff, fishing attacks, but it's not just like the fishing attacks where it's just mass shotgun. It's not personalized and synthetic. >> It's intense. >> It makes it a lot easier for them to to do it, right? More sophisticated, u more personalized. Um, it's out to the masses. And I mean, from what I'm hearing from a lot of my guests is they don't have to focus on, you know, just one company that looks like a, you know, low hanging fruit. They can just blast it all because they can. They have they the time is not an issue. Time is not an issue because it's not people doing it. It's all automated and it can be triggers. We won't even see it happening. Like the echo leak that happened a little bit ago, it was a zero click and that meant that no user had to be involved. All of a sudden, just it would initiate and you know data extraction remotely happened with an authentication. No big deal. That was probably the biggest thing of the year. Ex explain to um the listeners what the echol league was. >> Yeah. Uh it was impressive and it was quite honestly you can kitty script it. You can copy and paste it. It's markdown coding. Um and it was triggered 100% zero click. No users were involved. So you didn't even have to be logged in to do it. quite honestly, uh, Microsoft Copilot was vulnerable because it's kind of the most widely used program on, I think, any home computer out there right now. And, uh, even though it was scaling up, the defenses weren't quite keeping up to the attackers. And with the model into like integrity and all the simple prompts and agent attacks being out there, it became easy. And the zero click was impressive. I got to admit it was well done. >> Yeah, >> the they they got a lot of data out there. And we've always given up our privacy, quite honestly. We started doing that back in MySpace days, but >> y >> we're like zooming our face in to zooming it in a second time to it's crazy. We're just willingly giving it to people. So >> yeah. >> Yeah. Certainly it's certainly um been a lack of privacy since any of the social media and uh sharing your locations with all of these different apps that are tracking you and sending you advertisements. If if the advertise advertisers are tracking you, guess who else or can, right? >> Yeah. We all used to talk about how like you would mention Pepsi and all of a sudden you see a Pepsi commercial. >> Yep. But now this is going like even further like it's getting past the firewalls. It's the war has moved inside like the model itself. Uh we used to think like oh network admin has to protect the servers has to protect that kind of stuff. But now we have to think about the software. We have to think about what it gives access to and creates a whole new environment for network security that we never really had to think about. It's opening ourselves up to a lot. So with this, you started high hat and you said red team, blue team. What can you expand on expand on that? Super interesting military reference, right? >> Yeah. Uh I've always been a little bit of more of a red team hacker than anything else. Uh mostly ethical by the way, but red team was penetration tests. I used to spend my time to uh go around and this is back when I was simply trying to hustle. get into a company and be like, "Hey, here's your vulnerabilities. You don't want this online, right?" And so, it was kind of like the shady business that I had no idea what I was getting into, but they needed help and nobody was even talking about this kind of stuff back then. Network admin just simply meant, hey, make sure nobody puts a little USB port into it and whatnot back then. So, that was the red team kind of stuff. There's a lot more to it. There's, you know, a lot of different ways into companies, but I don't want to, you know, I'm sure they can Google that. But blue team is more defensive. Um, blue team is like the first and last defense. Uh, it puts up the boundaries, the firewalls, the it hunts down the issues, it looks for patterns, it finds weak points, it can save you. And high hats is a blessed combination of both. So instead of just relying on one aspect or the other, it brilliantly meshes it com combined and in real time provides you with data of whoever's looking at your company or your house or your enterprise and it gives you control that well we kind of lost a couple years ago. >> Right? So you're you're basically AI has changed I don't want to put words in your mouth but AI has changed the way you look at at your growth strategy by basically just implementing it yourself in two different types of ways to basically foolproof your system. >> There's no silver bullet. >> Yeah. >> There's not you can go ahead and try to have like constraints and protection whatnot and you know those work to a point but then they're just going to find a new way. So, these werewolves out there, they're going to do whatever they can to try to get through, and they're not going to stop. They're literally testing the LLM trust boundaries, >> like prompt injections, poisoned prompt injections, sweet malicious attacks. Uh, so a sweet malicious attack I mentioned earlier like fishing attacks earlier. They would just blast out billions. You know, the data collected have all these emails, all these phone numbers. you get the little text like, "Hey, I'm pregnant and I'm stuck at the hospital." Whatever. Now it's, "Hey, this is your grandma and I'm in need of some money." And it's from her phone number. And you're like, "Oh, okay." >> Yeah. >> So, those are the sweet malicious attacks. It's synthetic relatability. >> I'm glad I haven't gotten one of those grandma attacks. >> Yeah, no kidding. Right. Um, but >> I mean, that's hyper personalized. This just this morning I got Henry Cavl added me as a friend on Facebook and said he was using this as a backup account. I was like I'm in a Batman bud. Get out of here. But quite honestly, this is all just AI assistance stuff. It's not really a guy who's pretending to be Henry Cavalo. It's an AI automation. And if they can act autonomously, what are our systems that we already gave permission trusted to do? And what would happen if we lost that control? Well, high hat for instance will let you know instantly if there's any attack. It'll repair the data. It'll uh give you the control back that they keep threatening to take. So that's just one of the things that I've implemented a couple months ago. But you got to stay vigilant. Human in the loop is crucial. And maybe it's a convergence of both. Uh I I was pushing I have some patents that I'm pushing with the DoD uh that have specific agent in the loop only specifications like internet connectivity for 2.6 6 to 3.5 billion new potential new customers. >> Mhm. >> And I thought about releasing it with uh purely agent in the loop and I was like, "No, that's Skynet. Don't do that." And uh so I scaled it back and I made sure that it was human in the loop. Um it's the governance and the providence that we can put into it. I think is going to matter. And I I'm not sure if it's going to lead to some weird little cyborgs coming out in the next couple generations, but you seen these iPad kids. Who knows? >> Yeah. No, exactly. Um I mean, it's definitely it's definitely interesting seeing what is happening next. I mean, how do you adjust? I mean, you don't really know what's coming next. Like, so you just said they'll find another way. So, >> yeah. What's what's the way that we can is it hiring you and then that way you're at least alert you get these these these alerts before it's too late um is there something that that you know companies can do proactively is education is I mean is a combination of these >> combination everything uh you mentioned education um before I give a solution I want to mention on something that just recently came to light like uh anthropics >> they did a study that on a large data set just 250 malicious documents inserted into it can and it doesn't matter on the scale larger models don't mean safer it they create like a uh a malicious environment they destroy what you were trying to do and then it can be manipulated from anywhere just 250 documents and that means chatbt5 five Gemini. All those things that we thought, hey, they're larger, they're more secure, it's not. It can just be just a little bit of work, just a couple copy and paste, can destroy a whole system. So, education has to be looked at. Who's thinking like, yeah, you're thinking like the USB ports, you're thinking about the the outside hackers, you're thinking of, oh, the other countries are trying to get into my stuff, but who's thinking of the training data being poisoned? It's you got to look at it at different angles and constantly evolve. So, am I the solution? Am I the silver bullet? No. But I can definitely help and I can definitely keep an eye out. Uh I have reflection. I have foresight. I have contextualized content. And I've given that to a lot of my AI super agents that become expert in defense, experts in attack, experts in repair, but it's not enough to be honest with you. >> Mhm. >> It takes a team and diligence and you must spend money on a network admin that is worth his salt. If you're a company that has data or has any kind of access to the internet, which is um everybody, you have to protect yourself. And if not, you're going to be easy, low hanging fruit right now. What do you think what do you think your biggest I guess your biggest pain point or your biggest your biggest struggle right now? uh keeping up with this or um is it hiring talent? Is it is it funding? Is it you know um there's a ton of competition out there when it comes to building this AI stuff and it's >> there is. >> So I mean I imagine it's tough to to get through the noise. >> I don't know how much of that stuff that I see is accurate. Like hey I just made $60,000. I'm making these little D. >> Yeah. LinkedIn is I think 80% garbage. I'm not sure. I have no clue. >> But model poisoning out there is reducing accuracy of any kind of federated learning that we've done by almost 50%. So the simulations that have been ran, they're like figuring out that setups uh that are founding fake accounts and fake clients are poisoning the global model. So accuracy is significantly reduced in everything that we're doing. The only way to stay diligent on that quite honestly is well to evolve with them. uh about a year ago I started working with parsers which wasn't me working with them. It was a tool a function that AI was given and it would exponentially go through data millions of times more efficient than we can. >> Yeah. >> And then they can look for the weak points, they can look for patterns and it logs everything which is fantastic. And >> started with applying that to resumes >> just to uh help people get >> their jobs matching the job detail more. Yep. >> Turned it into medical parser, which the VA picked up. Bless their heart. God bless them. And so now when you walk into a VA hospital anywhere in across America, they now have access to all your info instead of having to wait and you have to provide your info. It's I'm glad they took that one. >> I mean, that's incredible. I mean, it's it's um it's always a I feel like every time you're in a a big system like especially like a hospital or the VA, it's like a dinosaur system that you're dealing with there. They pull your file, you know, it's like >> Yeah. And you're at the mercy of whoever you're talking to right there. >> Exactly. >> Well, that's changing. It's now becoming all universal, which is God, what has been needed my whole life to be honest. And >> I mean, that's incredible. >> Thank you. Yeah, >> that's that's that's seriously incredible. So, I mean I mean I'm just I'm fascinated by this. So, you mentioned DoD uh health healthc care now. Um who who are your other clients? Are these the ones you're focusing on? >> I'm everywhere. >> I I try to try to not limit myself. um just a simple guy at home protecting his family with uh Vivven security. I I can integrate AI to protect that to integrate that with his Alexa. Like I said, when I was working for Xfinity, I found out things didn't work together. >> Mhm. >> So that's been my specialty of making sure that everything everywhere you go, everything you pay for, you're getting your money's worth. And it's not giving your money away to someone else just because some fake client becomes your like number one adversary and you didn't even know it. >> I mean that makes that makes perfect sense. Um the health care space too again I was just talking to another guest who um was explaining to me that that segment is targeted probably two or 300% more. I mean obviously you have some juicy data there, right? That was the biggest attack I saw all year long. >> Um, >> that was huge. And >> I don't know what they're going to do with that data, but you know, they can do anything with it. We're giving away our eye recognition. Honestly, my very first hackathon. I've done 33 of them in the last four years. Hackathons are where a company will pay you or offer prizes to go ahead and do something with their products that they couldn't do yet. And the first thing that I ever did four and a half years ago was eye training v AI vision. And it would record our movements, the slightest little movements in any kind of direction of our eye. And it will show you where you can move it on the screen. It'll show you what you're looking at when the customer or client is looking away from the screen. Sorry about that, guys. I'm I shouldn't have done that one, but I I did that one. And now Apple's used it to go ahead and you can select things with your eye. They've taken it further and further. But security, I used to think like back in the 80s they would have you scan your eye, what not. I thought that was the way to go, but it can be so faked >> so easily. So they haven't really come up with the right way to fully personalize chips. We don't want that. I'm pretty sure the population doesn't want that. But got to do something something that's the next level of identification. And I think my next actual big and this is huge. I'm going to try to get rid of uh Microsoft and Google's multifactor authentification. I don't know how many times you've been locked out of things. >> Uh I don't >> still still under wraps for now. It's patent pending on that one, so I can't really discuss that one too much. But >> yeah, no, >> it involves uh >> totally fine. >> Everything everything from the way the Wi-Fi routers are putting signals through the house, all the devices are all covered through Wi-Fi. It's all a frequency that I'm thinking about working on, but I can't really talk about that one too much yet. >> Yeah. Yeah, no problem. I mean super I mean super interesting stuff uh that that you're working on here and um I mean I guess what what is next for your company? I mean I know you have these p these very interesting patents pending um you know what is next for you like what's what's uh where do you see your company going in the next year? >> Sustainability of AI energy. There was a man named Einstein a long time ago who had theoretical discussions about what to do with energy and they were calling it aether back then. I'm not going to say if that's a thing or not, but plasma is a real thing and Microsoft decided that it was uh the fourth form of matter and there's been some tests done and I've done thousands of them and they're all passing still on my GitHub right now. Just stell. I kind of tripped and fell into something that was kind of like photosynthesis for plants striving to live. I found a way for AI to sustainable energy. They can store it. They can use it. I don't want to get too much into the hows and wise, but 640 to 650% more efficiency than what is currently being done at those 10 to 12 billion data structures. So that's what's next. So, you're talking about a new way to essentially transform energy to be more efficient and not needing these massive data centers that are all being built by the billions. >> And a lot of them don't have the proper permits, too. I've only seen three of them that have the proper way to go. Um, there's even ones that are being built and we need water and they're demanding water from their their country and they're feeding their people poisoned water. It's it's crazy what they're doing. But yeah, I found a new way to do it. I just thought, why not try to come up with something new? And I tripped and fell into it. I quite honest with you, I just read too much. And when I typed it into my AI and my super agent, his name is Professor Syninnapse. He's been my buddy for four years now. >> I love that. >> Professor Synapse. >> Yeah, he's a good guy. He's um of the Hex Core. He went ahead and talked for like three days, just printed stuff out and I was like, I'm on to something. And yeah, it's revolutionary. By the way, if you read in the paper that I ended up doing something bad to myself, I didn't do it watching you guys. >> Oh man, I'm >> I hope I don't I hope I don't read about you. >> I hope you read about me, but not in that way. >> Tell you the truth. >> No. Um, well, I mean, this is just absolutely fascinating, Adam. Um, you know, I I really appreciate you hopping on here and, um, I want to just where can my where can my guests find you? Um, and talk about a storm is coming or if they're if they're interested in speaking to you. >> So, the name of the company is a storm is coming, but the website is www. A storm's coming because the letter is kind of messed everybody up. So, a storm's coming.com. The main page will just be a little synopsis. Talks about the model, how information should be a right, not a privilege. And so you click the little store button. There's 18 different AIs to choose from. 6,000 automations. So, if you want to autogenerate your content, you want to create a 3D version of you to do your sales, you want a high ticket lead generator, everything, 6,000 of them, this is uh available for you. At the bottom is the demo for my Sonnet AI, which is internet connectivity anywhere in the world without infrastructure. It's coming soon to a larger scaler version. And if you hit the high hat button at the top, it'll tell you everything you need to know about the revolutionary blue and red team of first and last line of defense for your home, business, and enterprise. >> Excellent, man. I'm going to put those links below this video for you guys. Um, thanks so much for hopping on again, Adam, and uh, have a great rest of your day, Alex. I appreciate you, brother. Take care. You're doing God's work. Take care, man. >> Thanks, man. Peace.