Hello everyone. Brain computer interfaces or BCIs are as the name suggests systems that read various mind signals and attempt to interpret them to let someone control software with their mind. Very cyberpunk, I have to have one. Usually this is done with a device called an EEG. It's a head massager type contraption that gives live amplitude signals from a number of electrodes. With methods ranging from a fast Fourier transform, checking for specific frequencies to gauge stuff like concentration percentages to gathering a labeled data set of what a human is currently thinking and training a classifier to even one method that's matching flashes in the visual cortex to patterns flashing on the screen. Don't really have, you know, this one. The Dunning-Kruger effect that's making me think I have a chance of improving on the already very competent BCI systems is an effect of the brain called co-adaptation. More on that later. By the way, I don't even have an EEG yet. So for now I'll try to get a similar live signal from the human using a hand tracker connected to this webcam that looks like it wouldn't be allowed on a plane. If I make something decently good, that might justify buying an EEG. All right. So to start with, let's make a proof of concept to make sure I even know how to use hand tracking. Let's implement a basic hand pose classifier neural net. I'll use a pre-existing hand tracker inside the MediaPipe library to do the actual tracking and feed the tensors that come out of it to my custom classifier net. To gather the data, I run the tracker continuously for a couple of minutes while pressing either w, a, s, or d to label each one of the four poses. Which resulted in a few thousand data points. After training, [music] let's see how it performs on inference. Not bad. This POC also shows that my elderly CPU-GPU combo is capable of running the hand tracker and classifier net at a decent frame rate. Basically in real time. It's every wannabe AI engineer's sign language interpreter talking data project. I'm sure they'd be thrilled to hear related to hear of it. But either way, I also made a visualizer for the hand armatures and a wrapper class for an OpenCV camera and the MediaPipe hand tracker. This is a good base for the project. In AI, when you have garbage nonsense data with no clear idea of what you're even trying to do, you can always rely on the trusty autoencoder to handle it. For those unfamiliar, it's a clever architecture where the input and output sides of the network are identical, but there's a bottleneck in the middle. When you train it by showing a certain input and expecting an identical output, the network does not have enough bandwidth to copy-paste the input across, so it's forced to make sense of it and will automatically encode it in a semi-intelligent way in the bottleneck. Let's try an experiment where I continuously train an autoencoder with a bottleneck of four with the hand tracker tensors and check whether there are some identifiable patterns for each hand pose I show it. Essentially, we got a closed-loop sense maker that automatically trains itself to boil down a given human signal input into latents with presumably some logic. It sounds really simple, but it's probably the most elegant thing I've ever done with PyTorch. If it were an EEG and not a hand tracker, the brain would also be tuning itself to the autoencoder if provided with the proper feedback. Which is the core idea behind co-adaptation. Still, the autoencoder is currently a black box. We need something more advanced to decipher it. It's well known that autoencoders usually organize their latent space, which is the space of all possible tensors going through the bottleneck, into physical regions. Meaning the latents of similar hand poses would be physically closer by Euclidean distance than some completely different hand poses. This means that if we show three distinct hand gestures and mark with a dot each latent as coordinates, we'll see three clusters appear in the latent space. That's really helpful to us in deciphering said black box since if you think about it, if it were an EEG signal, each cluster would correspond to a specific thought type or pattern. And new thoughts could be classified to a type they belong to. To detect such clusters, an algorithm by the name of online K-means exists. It's the most SKLearn-sounding thing ever, but bear with me. Spawn a number of centroids at well-spaced out random coordinates in the same space as where our latent tensor dots exist at. One for each cluster. The next step is to color each point in the data set to match its closest centroid. Finally, move each centroid to the average coordinate of its current population and reclassify again. Repeat this process a few times and each centroid should gravitate towards its cluster. This is regular K-means and to make it online, just actively add new points and delete the oldest ones from the data set over time. To tell which class a point belongs to, just check what's the nearest centroid to it. Remember, each point here represents a hand position or an EEG record in the future. We effectively found a way to classify hand positions in real time without ever having the user explicitly label what was doing just by the difference of each hand pose or thought. Let's run it and see what it does. Clearly something isn't going as planned. Let's debug as an excuse for me to show you around the code. Those of you who worked with real-time AI systems might have already figured out the issue. This morphing behavior is the autoencoder literally overfitting in real time to each new hand pose I'm showing instead of generalizing some smart encoding that handles all hand positions at the same time. Just like the biological kind, artificial nets also seek the fastest short-term reward game and this one just found optimal way to minimize its loss in the immediate moment by mimicking one-to-one the currently shown hand pose. To fix it, we need to somehow shuffle each distinct hand pose so the autoencoder sees something like a closed fist in one example, a pointing finger in the next, etc. Let's add a live data set class. In the business, what we need is called a shuffled replay buffer. We can make one by keeping a queue of the last, let's say, 200 tracked hand tensors and each time a new one is added, the oldest one is deleted. To train the autoencoder, we randomly sample a number of examples from this queue with which we can also control the batch size easily, which we also didn't have before. Let's run it and indeed we see that every time I show a new hand pose, the autoencoder slowly morphs to it, but it doesn't forget the old ones and immediately switches between them. Okay, so now we have a system [music] which is really good at quickly determining which out of a number of states the human signal is in. But to wrap up the project, we still need a way to label which action each detected state should perform. I think I see a way to kill this and two other birds with three stones, I guess. The first, I don't like how currently both the online K-means and live data set classes each are holding data. It should be centralized from a code design perspective. This will be also helpful for the two other birds. The second is that if I hold the same hand gesture for a really long time, the replay buffer is drained of all the other poses and the autoencoder forgets them, too. This one is a bit trickier to fix. I thought of a racial segregation-style solution. Let's implement a mechanism that splits the one main queue that holds all the hand positions into a number of smaller queues, each holding only one type of hand pose. To add a new record, we can check which queue the record belongs to by classifying its latent with the online K-means and depending on which cluster it belongs to, add it to the appropriate queue. This way, even if we show a hand pose for a whole minute, only its private queue will get rotated, but all the other hand poses will remain intact. Finally, for the third bird, let's use both previous additions and add yet another field to the queue. This time it should hold a string label. To actually get the labels from the user, let's quickly throw together a label getter class to just return the currently pressed keyboard key out of the preselected group. And to check which label each queue has, let's throw together another class, centroid labeler. We'll count the most common label in each queue. That's about it. Let's test it out. First, I made an automated reel scrolling contraption. Open hand is the rest pose, >> [music] >> closed fist is labeled with scroll down, flipped hand is with opening and closing comments, and like for liking. The training you see is in real time. This is generally how fast it is from startup. Let's make something slightly harder. There's a browser-based flight simulator called GeoFS. Here I'm doing sort of a virtual joystick by labeling pitch as W and roll as A and D. While you're watching past me struggle, let me address some questions that will probably be frequently asked. First of all, didn't I just come back full circle to the POC if in practice I need to label at least once each cluster? To that I say that the labeling part doesn't need to be for every sample, but only enough to make the label getter get counts for what label each queue has. Most of the training is happening in silence, which also lets me collect far more data than if I had to label each data point alone. And of course with a static data set, we cannot do any code adaptation like what's happening here. Another question is the autoencoder essentially outputs a time series of vectors, which is the transformer's natural habitat. Why isn't there a transformer here? Honestly, it's because I was just too lazy to start dealing with time sequences, but indeed placing one somewhere will allow us to interpret signatures that happen over time. For example, like a no-hand gesture. I imagine this would also be pretty crucial for good EEG results. Finally, does this justify buying an EEG? Well, I'd say yes. Through some crazy monopoly moves, these cost anywhere from 8 to 1200 dollars, but naturally I'll be happy to endorse such a monopoly if someone like Emotiv has an extra headset lying around. I don't know, I'm just saying. As usual, the code is open source on GitHub. You're welcome to contribute. For those looking for a Roko's Basilisk cult, you can join my Discord server. And thanks for watching.