Imagine if you had a super powerful AI agent that runs 100% on your computer. No data ever leaves your machine. You have complete privacy and it can do basically anything. That is Agent Zero. My name is David Andre and in this video I'm going to show you a new simple way to set up Agent Zero, how to run it with local models and what you can actually do with it. All right, so the first step is to install Agent Zero. So type in Agent Zero into Google and click on the first link. Now, be careful to go to the right website because there are some projects that are copying us. So, the correct URL is agent-zero.ai. I'm going to put the link below the video. Now, as you might have noticed, we added this one-line install script. This is the simplest, easiest way to install Agent Zero and all of the dependencies. On the right there is a copy button, click that and then all you have to do is open the terminal, paste it in and hit enter. Once you hit enter, you'll see that this begins the Agent Zero install process. You can see that it's asking me what to do, but I'm going to select a new instance so that I can show you all of the steps from scratch. Enter. Now, then you can select a version. If you want to have features that are, you know, not yet released to the public, go with the testing branch, but if you want the latest stable release, go with latest. Then you can give a name to this uh instance. I'm just going to name it YT. Next, we need to select the port that Agent Zero will be running on. By default, it's 5080, so hit enter. As you can see, this is going to pull the image, the Docker image of Agent Zero, which is the entire operating system. So, this is a couple of gigabytes because it includes all of Linux, a bunch of tools, everything that you would expect in an operating system. And that's what makes Agent Zero safe. If you install a bunch of these other agents, whether it's Claude Code, Open Claw, Codex and run them on your computer in full YOLO mode when you don't have to accept every command, the issue is that they can delete your files. They can leak your data, all that stuff. Agent Zero runs in a Docker container, which makes it secure and private. Okay, so there we go, that was fast. Let's click on open in browser and hit enter. And there we go, just like that, we have Agent Zero installed from scratch. As you can see, we have this red notification and that's expected because we haven't connected an LLM yet. So, that's what I'm going to show you next, how to actually connect a locally run model that runs completely on your machine so that no data ever leaves the computer. Now, when it comes to running models locally, there are two main platforms, Ollama and LM Studio. For Agent Zero specifically, Ollama is more supported and works better. So, that's what we're going to use. So, just go to ollama.com and they also have a convenient one-liner install script. So, copy that, head back into the terminal, can actually uh create a new terminal, command N, and paste it in. Boom, hit enter and this is going to download Ollama. Now, this doesn't download any models yet. We're going to get to that soon, but this just installs the Ollama app so that you can easily run models, host them in a server, and use them to power your Agent Zero. All right, so let's type in clear to clear the terminal and type in Ollama list to see a list of your models. Now, if you just installed it for the first time, obviously this will be empty, so don't worry. Next, I'm going to show you how to actually install specific AI models through Ollama. And to do that, go back to the home page on the website and in the top left you should see the button models. The most important factor when choosing which model to run is your hardware. How powerful is your computer, right? So, here is a simple graphic that kind of gives you general guidelines of what size you can run because again, if we look at the models, each one has different size, you know, 1.2 billion up to 122 billion, Nemo 2.7B super 120 billion, another great model from Nvidia. But for example, with the Qwen, we need to select which size of the Qwen do we run? Or, you know, do you want to run 397B? Probably not, right? So, take a look at this chart. You can see different sizes of uh MacBooks, how much RAM you have. Now again, on these systems, the RAM of your computer doesn't matter. If you have Nvidia GPU, what matters is the VRAM of that GPU. That's the beauty of Apple. If you have Apple silicon, your RAM is shared between the CPU and the GPU, so you can run models that are much more powerful than people with Nvidias, even multiple Nvidia GPUs, okay? So, most of you are probably going to be in this range, 20 to 35 billion, again, depending on your machine. If you have an older PC, then go in the like 9 to 13 billion range, and you should be fine here. And again, the beauty of Qwen is that it has models in all of these different ranges. So, just choose the one that your computer can handle. Copy the model name, so let's say I'm going with the 122B, go back to the terminal and type in Ollama run and the model name. And it will begin loading the model, which I'm going to kill that because this is a huge model and I'm recording, so it will begin lagging the system. But, that's how you start the model. If you don't know how to use a terminal, I'm going to show you a magic trick, which is called asking AI, right? Because there's people who are not familiar with the terminal, they have like a irrational fear, they have like a terminal phobia, right? Like some people have fear of spiders or fear of snakes, whatever. You know, I would say those are a lot more rational than the fear of the terminal. The terminal is your best friend, like there's no need to fear it. But, let's say you're a new to AI, you know, you're you're not a developer, you're not familiar with the terminal, and maybe you don't even know how to start it. Well, guess what? I'm going to show you a secret tip, which is called asking AI how to do it. How do I open the terminal? I'm watching a YouTube tutorial and I'm not sure what to do when he mentions open the terminal. Please make the instructions simple and easy to follow. And just like that, you can solve absolutely any problem you encounter in any of my tutorials. So, back to the terminal, right? Choose the model that you want to use and then let's run it. So, I'm going to type in again Ollama run and then the model name, paste. And hopefully this doesn't crash my OBS because it's a huge model, and even though my MacBook is super powerful, let's send a message. Hey, yeah, it's it's fine. It's chilling. We're running 122B model and we're chilling, guys. Fully local, by the way. But, as you can see, this is pretty good. I would say this is like 40 tokens per second. So, 122 billion model running at 40 tokens per second fully locally with reasoning. Hey, I'll take that. I take that with full privacy. Amazing. And again, I'm going to touch on the use cases at the end of the video, show you three different use cases where it actually makes a lot of sense to use a fully local agent such as Agent Zero powered by a local model. Your data is your most valuable thing. And if you're doing some sensitive work or you have like company data, you really don't want to be sending that to Open AI, to Google, to Anthropic. And that's why local models exist. But inside of Agent Zero, I'm going to show you two setups because there's a chat model and there's a utility model. So now let's move back to Agent Zero and let's set up Ollama inside of it. Now actually, before we can do stuff in Agent Zero, we need to do one more thing. So type in Ollama. This will launch the Ollama app. So when we installed Ollama, it also comes with the app as well as the CLI. So go to the top left, click on Ollama and the settings. And here we need to select the context length. As you can see, it's selected to 256. That's good. Just make sure it's minimum 16K, okay? Minimum 16K. Ideally 32K or above. I'm going to go with 256K as the context length for my models, okay? So we can close that. And inside of Agent Zero, next thing is setting up the LLM. So go to settings and click on chat model right here. And here we need to select the model provider. So as you can see, it's Open Router by default, but we need to select Ollama right here. Ollama, click on that. And here we need to put in the model name that we installed. So again, if you're not sure what you installed, just type in Ollama list to see the model names and just copy the exact one here. Replace this chat model name with the one. And then the context length we need to match that, right? So 100K, I think it was 256K. 256, but you can probably leave it to 100K. The issue is that it cannot be smaller. So like if you did in Ollama like 32K, make sure to change it here to 32K as well. So for now we can click save here and make sure you have either the Ollama app open or inside of the terminal you're running the model. That way we can actually use it inside of Agent Zero. Now, one more thing inside of the settings, if we go once again, settings, you can also access settings top left, then chat model, we need to change the base URL. There we go, chat model API base URL. This needs to be changed because, again, we we need to tell Agent Zero where to look for this model, and it's running locally. So, what you need to paste in is this right here, http host docker internal 11434, and I'm going to link this I'm going to put this exact string below the video so you can just copy it. But this should be the port where Ollama is running. Let's click on save, and let's see if this works or not. All right, so no errors yet, fingers crossed, calling LLM. Oh, there it is. You can see the model reasoning now, and it's a new conversation, so it responds warmly. Hello there, I'm Agent Zero, autonomous AI assistant. Amazing, we're running fully local. Not a single token, not a single byte is leaving the system. And then, okay, so now we got some errors, and that's because we haven't connected the utility model, which is what I'm going to show you right now. So, again, let's go back to settings and click on utility model. As you can see, it's trying to do open and out of Gemini free flash, but we want to make sure the utility model also runs locally. This is for like smaller tasks, background tasks, which, you know, Agent Zero is optimized for speed and efficiency. So, again, let's go back to Ollama, and we could use something from the Quen family, you know, I could use maybe 35B, 27B, which would be a lot faster for me than 122B, and would be ideal size for the utility model, but I'm going to show you something different. I'm going to go back to models, I'm going to scroll back a bit more, and we're going to use a different super powerful model, which is GLM 4.7 flash. This one is 30 billion, and it's very, very powerful for 30 billion. You can see they have different quantizations and stuff like that, so you can select the one you want, but you can just run the default GLM 4.7 flash. And again, same thing as before, you copy this command, you open a terminal, boom, I'm in clear, and you paste it in, and this will run the model. First, it will download it, right? So, again, anytime you download a new model, it will take some time. Depending on your internet speed, it could take anywhere from 10 minutes to 1 hour, you know, or maybe even longer if it's a huge model. But, once you download it, if you type in Ollama list, you should see a list of your models. And you can see that I have this model right here, and it's around 19 GB of size. So, I'm going to copy the model. Boom. Again, copy the model name, switch back to Agent Zero, and inside of the util- utility section, so I'm going to navigate here again. Settings, top left, click on utility model, and here we need to change the provider again to Ollama, and change the model name to your utility model, which in this case I'm going to be using the GLM 4.7 flash. API key, uh we can leave that blank. Base URL, we need to do the same thing. Same thing as above, host docker internal 11434, and we should be good. So, click on save. I'm going to create a new chat. I'm going to say, "Hey, who are you? Remember that my name is David." So, utility model is what does like a lot of the memory stuff, uh background tasks, so that's why I told you this. And you can see that now it was a lot faster. We didn't have to load for 20 30 seconds because Qwen 122B was already loaded. So, it's much more efficient if you keep the models loaded, and now the memory saved work beautiful. So, this is utility model that that, and that was the GLM 4.7 flash. So, Agent Zero has a very advanced memory system where it can remember stuff about you long term uh with a mix of vector embeddings and, you know, markdown files. So, that is handled by the utility model just to save costs and make it faster, right? So, again, for utility model, you don't need as much powerful as much power as for the main model, but it still should be something decent, you know, you shouldn't use like a 2 billion model for that. Oh, and also for the context, if you go at the bottom, you can click on context to see, right now we have 9,318 tokens, and that's most of the system prompt. Oh, there is some lagging. Yeah, I'm trying to record in 4K, and I have a 100 I have two models loaded, right? 122B and 30B. So, I'm really pushing my MacBook to its limits. Um yeah, it's never worked this hard before. Anyways, we got the utility model working, which is great. But now, there's one more thing, which is the embedding model. And this is like a gotcha that a lot of people don't realize. For some of you, it might not be needed, but if you're having issues, I'm going to show you how to set up the embedding model through Ollama as well. Okay, so in the settings, we have the embedding model, right? And by default, this is set to Hugging Face as the provider, and it's a Mini LM L6 V2, okay? Now, some people have issues with this when you run it with Ollama. So, I'm going to show you how to run your embedding model through Ollama as well. And this one is again through the terminal, same process, but the name is nomic-embed-text. So again, Ollama pull nomic-embed-text. Enter. And feel free to skip this if you don't have any issues. But wait, this model is a lot smaller, so this will be couple seconds to download. And then inside of Agent Zero, again, embedding model, select to Ollama and change this to nomic-embed-text here and click on save. All right, so as you can see, Agent Zero is working, it's responding, and you can obviously chat with it and do your work, your you know, chatting needs, whatever you would do in ChatGPT or Claude. But let's take it a step further and let's go into some practical use cases. So, first one comes with photos, right? Because all of us have personal photos, private stuff that we don't want to upload to the internet. We don't want to give that to Sam Altman to use in his next training ground, right? If you have your loved ones, your kids, your wife, whatever, don't upload their photos to AI, okay? Keep them private, keep them local. But if you want to use a powerful AI model to analyze them, to read the metadata, you have to do it locally, which is what I'm going to show you how to do with Agent Zero. So, first, you need to drag the photos into Agent Zero. Very simple UI, just drag it in. As you can see, they're all loaded, and I'm going to paste in a prompt here. Let me read this. Here are my personal photos. For each image, read the metadata, GPS coordinates, date taken, camera model, and use your vision to describe what's in the photo. Then, sort them into subfolders by category: food, people, landscape, documents, screenshots, others using revision capabilities. So, you can see this is not a simple task. This is multi-step use case. Finally, generate a markdown travel report summarizing how many cities I visited, a breakdown by category, a timeline of where I was and when, and any patterns you notice. Make sure to actually look for the images themselves, not just the metadata. So, as you can see, here are all the images and then Okay, we seem to have a error here. All right, so let's go to settings. Let's figure out what's happening. Let's make sure we set the chat model. Okay, I think this is the mistake. I didn't set the embedding model for the the URL for the embedding model. So, again, embedding model API base URL, make sure to set this to this one, and let's double-check that we have this set for chat model, utility model, and embedding model. Okay, we do. Save, and let's try again. Boom, same images same prompt, and let's run it. Now, since the models need to reason through the images, this takes longer than if you do a text-only use case, obviously, right? In fact, we can go to context, and we can see this is already 14,000 tokens, and um yeah, images take up the context window a lot faster than just text. So, as you can see, for multi-step use cases like this, Agent Zero does a lot of things. It generates a reasoning, then it executes terminal commands to analyze all these photos, then it does more reasoning on what to do. Another terminal command, installing ExifTool library. So, this is the beauty of Agent Zero. It has full access to the Linux terminal, and it can do anything that a you know, DevOps engineer, a professional Linux try-hard developer could do on a Linux system. Then, here is some more reasoning on how to use that tool. Then, it uses it to extract some info about like the iPhone location. Yeah, basically, necessary information from these photos. It ran into some error, but it doesn't give up. This is one thing that you notice about Agent Zero. It's like you give it a task and it just goes. Open claw, closed code, open code, you know, they they are also good, but they stop too early. They ask you for feedback too much and they are not persistent enough. With Agent Zero, you give it a task, you give it the necessary context and it will move mountains for you to make that task happen. And right now it's all doing locally. I mean I can feel my MacBook heating up. It's kind of crazy. But yeah, maybe we shouldn't have started with such an intensive task, but hey, at least we're pushing Agent Zero to its limits here. Well, it's more like pushing my MacBook to its limits cuz I'm literally recording 4K video and hosting three different models. Again, this is not just not just the chat model. If we do all on my list, you can see that like I'm using a different model for each purpose, right? Embedding, utility model and chat model. So I'm hosting three different models locally while recording, while giving it a very intense photo use case with like 15 different photos and multi-step. So yeah, we're pushing both Agent Zero and both my MacBook to its limits here. All right, so this took a while. Again, I think I should have chosen a simpler use case to start with. But hey, at least at least it did it. So a bunch of tool calls, you can see how much work Agent Zero put in. You collapse all of these. Yeah, that's a lot of tool calls. As I said, Agent Zero it really puts in the work. It's probably the most persistent AI agent out there and yeah, here's the proof. We have the answer. So analyzed 15 photos, extracted material, organized into categories, generated comprehensive travel report. 15 photos, countries visited, Japan, Thailand, Kazakhstan, UAE, Vietnam. Here's the timeline and here's the category organizations of the photos. So it used the vision tool. You can see the vision load, built-in tool. And we have the report right here as a markdown file. So, let's open that up. So, I just downloaded the markdown file and pasted it to see it as an artifact, visualize the markdown structure. And yeah, here's a detailed analysis of all the photos. And again, the main thing is none of this data left my computer. So, you can do this offline in the middle of a flight, in the middle of a forest, airplane mode, doesn't matter, right? You are not giving your data to these big tech companies, to, you know, these intelligence agencies. It stays in your computer and you can still use powerful AI models to do your work. Sure, it's slower, takes longer, but hey, that's the trade-off for having complete privacy. Now, here are a few more examples of tasks that I would highly recommend you use a local AI model or AI agent for. Health medical data analysis, right? Let's say you went to the doctor, you have a some report, you know, some some analysis, you broke your arm or whatever, or you've done a DNA methylation test, right? Whatever. You don't want to give that to Big Tech, trust me. Keep it local, use Agent Zero with Ollama to analyze this. Financial records, another thing. This can legit, you know, people always hate on China for their social credit scores. The West also has social credit scores, right? All of these countries just don't publish them, right? So, don't give out your financial records on the internet, especially not like crypto keys and stuff like that. You know, keep it local, keep it private, not not even like have internet access when you're doing that stuff. But also photos and videos, we talked about that. Password and credentials, right? Again, keep it local, never upload your passwords into ChatGPT, guys. Come on. Legal documents, another thing, you know, if you sign an NDA, some contract, you should not upload it. Like that that would be a breach of contract to upload it to a cloud, right? Journaling, therapy notes, again, that's highly sensitive information, you know, your feelings, your personality traits, what you're dealing with mentally. All of these can be exploited for advertising, you know, these companies, ChatGPT is rolling out ads, Meta is obviously ads everywhere. So, if you give them this ammunition, it'll be used against you in terms of ads and worse, right? Like if George Orwell is correct, it'll be a lot worse than ads. Business secrets, you know, if you have some like recipe, you know, Coca-Cola recipe or, you know, you have some like really good insights and ideas, whether it's code, whether it's some chemical secret, I don't know. Do not upload that to ChatGPT. Do not upload that. Like personal story, by the way, which I cannot share the details, but I've met a person who was a brother of a very prominent scientist and I cannot even say the country from where he was from. And he basically was a physicist and he invented some process for that could be used for weapon, like weapons manufacturing. And he got offered from OpenAI free subscription, right? Because OpenAI, what they do, and by the way, this is just allegedly, right? That's what my lawyers told me to I need to say this wording, allegedly. None of this is confirmed. Allegedly, what OpenAI and these companies do is that they spot the top 0.01% of users in terms of the quality of questions, right? Scientists, researchers, super valuable individuals and they offer them free ChatGPT Pro, right? So they like give them the paid plans for free as a kind of a gesture. So this happened to the scientist and again, he was like a physicist/chemist working on web I need to leave out a lot of details, guys. But basically, one or two months after he began using ChatGPT in his work and his research papers, his a lot of his patterns and and like inventions were stolen by Yeah, I really cannot go into much detail, but let's just say that if you are a high-level scientist and you have some unique ideas, you should not upload it to ChatGPT, right? You shouldn't do that. It'll be exploited not just by the companies, but by entities that have more powers over these companies, right? Let's keep it super vague. And yeah, these are just some of the use cases where I would highly recommend you use H2O locally with local models such as Ollama or LM Studio. Just, you know, it is worth it setting it up. Again, this video shows you all the steps. Follow if you need to, watch it again and follow these steps. But, uh if you're doing some sensitive work, for example, preparing for World War III, you know, that was That was another use case I was going to show you. So, let's do a new chat right here. Boom, new chat. I'm going to paste in this prompt. This basically how to prepare for World War and, you know, what to do and where to stash your stuff and Again, data that you don't want the government to have in case World War III really breaks out. Some might argue that it already did break out. Uh so, yeah, stuff like this, you know, essential survival planning and, you know, where you keep like secret locations. Do not put that on the internet, guys. Do not use ChatGPT and Claude. Even if they're more intelligent than GPT-3.5 122B, it's not worth it. It really is not worth it. If you want to chat with a model, just download a local model on Ollama, run it inside of Agent Zero, and use this setup. Now, you just saw how powerful local AI models can really be. But, here's the thing. Most people will watch this, play around with it for the weekend, and then move on and not do anything with it. And the people who really win in AI aren't the ones who just use the tools, they're the ones who build products with them. So, if you want to know how to take your technical skills and your idea and turn it into an actual AI company, in this video right here, I broke down the exact path I took. In this video right here, I broke down the exact path I took to build and sell my AI company. It's going to be the first link below the video. Go watch it now.