That stupid data center in my closet saved my life, mainly my sleep. The project did cost a couple hundred bucks and also just my sanity as I crimped cables. Stripe green, blue, yo wait. No, no, no, no, no. That's supposed to be stripe blue. But in fairness, this was my room beforehand. You got a router there, a switch there, you got a server or two on the floor, you got cables running up through the walls. I swear to God, I started feeling like Chuck McGill from Better Call Saul. I'm going to blame it on the frequencies. You know, I had to do something to fix the chaos in my room. And so I began and I instantly regretted it. You're going to see the whole process. It was a pain. Do not crimp your own cables. It's terrible. All right, let's let's go. Let's come on. >> [music] >> All right. Oh, dude, this thing weighs a ton. What the hell? Uh All right, set up kind of like a another camera angle. Here, I bought this rack >> [clears throat] >> from Amazon. It was like almost 200 bucks, but had a lot of prime points. All right. I don't even remember the name. Ah. It's RackPath. Now, let's open this bad boy up. All right, perfect. Uh now we're on to the second page of the rack installation. Yeah, so it may have taken me an hour or so just to set up the first two pieces of this build, hence the time lapse. But yeah, essentially I'm just setting up the top and bottom half of the rack. I did end up spending a little bit extra time on this part simply because this rack is adjustable, meaning I had to basically screw in the right sections so that the length was adequate enough for all my equipment to properly fit. Attach two left vertical rails and two right vertical rails to the bottom frame and secure each rail with three If you haven't caught on by now, it does take me a minute for the instructions to just stick to my brain. Something about them paper instructions, man, it just throws me off. But yeah, this thing is really starting to come together as you can see. It's it's looking very rectangular to say the least. I am finally done with almost everything. One of the screws could not actually go in. That one's barely in and then the bottom one there is just is just not going in. I don't know if that's on me. All that's left is to add these wheels. Now, outside the fact that this rack is adjustable size, it also freaking has wheels, which was a big plus for me. There's going to be a lot of equipment and it's easily going to weigh at least 100 lbs. Okay, maybe 100 is overkill, but trust me, get the wheels. Oh, nice. And let's go. So, it's done. Oh my God, that took way too long. And uh let me tell you, putting on those wheels was absolutely terrible. Stupid stupid screws, man. I don't freaking Hey, it moves. Very nice. There is something I really did not think about, whether or not this rack is going to fit in the closet. I'm going to have to put this in horizontally into my closet. Is that even But there is a lot of depth in the closet. Yo. Another product just arrived. So yeah, here I've got a Weaves [music] mountable power strip. Ooh. This is the brand is uh called CyberPower. [music] Ah, it's focusing now. We've got here a CyberPower relocatable power tap. It's just basically a mountable power surge strip. But yeah, it's cool. It's got plugs on the front, some on the back. Uh and I really like how this one there's a lot of spacing in between cuz you know, a lot of the times the things that you are plugging into your power strips are can be pretty bulky, so it's uh nice that there's space in between these. Here I've got my uh rack mounting equipment. I've got screws, cage nuts, and plastic washers. So, I also am going to mount the power strip up at the very top. You should be fair, I was never really taught like how to use a screwdriver. Like, okay. Obviously, using a screwdriver is probably probably pretty self-explanatory, but but I'm sure there are things one should know when when it comes to using a screwdriver and like using nuts and bolts and screws and over-tightening and stuff like that. Like, well, this looks great. Take a look, guys. Yeah, so there's not really much else to do now. I'm just going to wait until all the other parts arrive and continue building this. All right, now let's talk about the parts I ordered, right? So, got the rack. 12U, I think that's more than enough for me. I got a mountable power surge strip. I also got a shelf, mountable shelf. I don't know these terms. There's a shelf coming in, okay? Putting it in the rack. I mentioned the Z4 G4. This thing is actually like an enterprise level desktop. [music] So much so that HP had actually developed their own rack mounting equipment for that tower. I found it online on eBay. And hopefully it functions the way it's supposed to. And I think that is it for the time being. I'm kind of winging this, to be honest. I'm learning as I go. If I end up needing anything else, I'll just order it. Oh, and if you enjoy the video, please like. All right, ladies and gentlemen, the mount for my Z4 G4 just arrived. I'm going to go get it and just going to install this thing. Ooh. It's freaking huge, man. All right, let's open this thing up. Uh I'm honestly very happy I was able to purchase this because you know, I had done some research to see whether there were rack mounts for [music] basically desktop towers. That was a thing. Uh looks like there are specifically for like enterprise grade towers. Thankfully, Z4 G4s, they you know, a lot of companies they typically purchase these sort of devices and I guess a lot of times they put them into server racks. Um and just treat them as normal servers. Got everything kind of nice and organized. Going to go ahead and start building this thing. Step number one. Adjust the fixed rails to the appropriate length for the rack. Apparently, this extends out. These are one of the fixed rails that came in the box that I'm supposed to attach into the rack. All right, so I was very confused by this thing here. What I think we're supposed to do, this and this is supposed to sit in between this railing here. Anyway, now I'm sitting here wondering, do I still have to use the cage nuts for this part? I had assumed so. Hm, okay. Well, that answers my question. Yeah, I can't even install these rails with the cage nuts in here. How I always notice about myself that whenever I'm building something, I'm usually quiet. All right, one rail down. Another rail to go. Now, what we're going to do is install the rack mount tray. This is like foreign language. Okay, I get it. Oh. This is getting to look nice now. What we're doing now is we are going to install the Z4 G4. Yeah, I think it's finally time. I'm going to bring this over to the front, lower the camera. All right, let's get these instructions out again. Extend it out a bit cuz that's what's being depicted in the actual instructions. Secure the two system retainer brackets to the two 6-32 taped [music] taped? No, tapped holes on the back of the computer. Let's see if these holes exist. If not, I'm going to go crazy. Oh, they do exist. This is amazing. Lift the latches, slide the tray forward until it stops and gave. Okay, just going to flip it around. There you go. All right, not sure if you guys can see that, but there's a hole here, hole here. And I have to align these screws with those holes. I should be good. Make a whole lot more sense. Yep. That was not so bad. But now, got something else to show you. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on. Let's take a pause um because it's me from the future. Before we get into any of that, we got a quick word from our sponsor, PCBWay. Look, there are a lot of components that are going into this build. I mean, we got the servers, the networking equipment, the printed mounts. You know, at one point or another, it all starts with a printed circuit board. >> [cough and clears throat] >> That's right, which is exactly why PCBWay makes it dead simple to get started making your custom PCBs. Let me show you how it's done. All right, so we're going to head over to pcbway.com and up at the very top we'll hit PCB instant quote. Here we'll find a bunch of different specs we can fill out. I'll go ahead and fill out size and quantity. And you know what? I'm also going to change up the solder mask color. I want something fun, so I'll choose red. Perfect, we're going to scroll back up to the top and hit calculate. And we got our quote ready. All we got to do is hit save to cart. We'll go ahead and upload our Gerber file here next. Now the order is pretty much ready to go. It'll get reviewed and approved by an agent and then we'll be able to check out. Easy as that. My link's in the description if you guys are interested in supporting the channel and potentially starting your first project. This. The rack shelf arrived. Hey. They provided more rack studs. That's nice. Step number one. Align the mounting bracket with the slot on the side of the slotted fixed shelf. Make sure that the end of the bracket is also lined with the corner the slotted fixed broke. Why are there no images? Okay. I changed shirts. Many days later, I'm now going to add my second server onto the rack. Yep, there it is. Okay. Yep. So, similar idea to this, just going to lay it horizontally here. Guys, I got to say this case is honestly next level. The the amount of hard drives that you can store in here is quite incredible. Got one hard drive there located at the bottom, another one up top. [music] And those little things on the right, those are used to lock the hard drives in place. And there are a total of like nine or 10 different places you can put hard drives. Those are kind of have these like adhesive grips. Um, I'm not really sure the proper name for them, but I'm going to put them on this side of the case. A little bit of extra support. It also prevent the power from sliding or whatever. I don't know, this is looking pretty good now. And I'm also sitting here wondering like how I'm going to fit other things onto this rack. Yes, this is one U. This is one U. I don't even know if I'd consider this possible. Because this tower or this case is so I guess thick. Like and I still have plans to add other things. All right, so I actually did just think of something. I could technically put this power surge strip over towards the back of the rack. Although, I don't know if that is advised, but anyway, it would free up this whole unit of space. It's what I need. I did end up making that change and I just got the cables running towards the back here. I was thinking of connecting them over back here, but yeah, I don't know like just the proximity of the power supply here to the power strip. I don't know, it's just like >> [snorts] >> Meow. Lot has changed >> [clears throat] >> since I kind of I guess maybe since the last clip. I don't know. Let me show you around. No computer there, but also if we can see here, there's nothing up there. There used to be a router modem. Anyway, I had a weird setup. I've moved everything into the rack. No rack mount for any of this stuff yet. All right, let's have a better look. First of all, over here you can see this is actually my access point. It was originally just a router, but yeah, I set it to access point mode, so now because I've included a switch there towards back. Not sure if we can see all that stuff back there. Anyway, there's a lot going on there. But, there's a plan. And the plan lies here on these two sheets of paper. So, yeah, don't mind my third grader handwriting. Um, a little bit of explanation. So, this top part is where we're going to have a patch panel. And yes, you might be asking, "Why does he need a patch panel? Why? Who would do such a stupid thing?" I counter that by stating everyone's got a patch panel in their nice looking server rack. I want one, too. That's what this is. SG105E. That is my switch. I bought this switch like several years ago and I just never used it. Off to the right here, the ER605. Yeah, not much to say about this router or the switch really. They're both fairly cheap and I think they work just fine for my setup. Some of you guys might be wondering in this beautiful diagram here, why do I have the router right next to the switch? Um, and kind of laid out like this. I want to utilize all the space I've got and I want to also make it look as nice as possible, even if it doesn't make sense. See, I mean, I found myself questioning like, "Is there a freaking rack mount for the ER605 and the SG105E, these totally enterprise level gear?" Like kind of. Yeah, so thankfully this community is awesome and they've literally created 3D print files of modular rack mounts for both the ER605 and the SG105E, which means I can put these two devices together. But, there's one problem. I don't have a 3D printer and I'm not about to go buy one. And if I did, I'm not about to set all that up. I lucked out because my nearest library has a 3D printing section. Like 10 cents per gram or something for PETG. Um, that material, whatever. This is way better than spending like 50 or 60 bucks for some dude on Etsy to just print out the same thing. All right, enough yapping. Patch panel has finally arrived. >> [snorts] >> Got like this thing on the back here, too, I guess sort your cables and stuff. Uh, but yeah, this should be fairly easy to mount. Yo, back on the computers. Going to do something here. And that something, ladies and gentlemen, was making a whole server rack diagram. Just because, you know, why not make my life a little bit harder, make this project take a bit longer. Really, the point of this was to just get a better idea of what was going inside the rack, which really makes you think, "Why did I do this over halfway through the project?" I don't know. I really should have done this in the beginning, but anyway, I just figured it might help me for the the rest of the project, I guess. But, yeah, here's the diagram. Now, kind of the next step is we're really reaching the end of this whole thing. Now, what I have to do is just measure the cables. I just did a bunch of measurements and let me tell you, I'm not confident I'm not confident that the measurements are accurate. They I I honestly I overestimated on a lot of them. I definitely think I went a couple inches over in some of the measurements. Also, don't know how the crimping process is going to look like. I kind of feel like I have to account for some of that just in case I mess up. I don't know. Um, a little bit worried, but hopefully everything goes smoothly. And in fact, it did not go smoothly. Yep, I watched a bunch of videos on how to crimp cables, then proceeded to do exactly what the videos had showed me and failed in the process. Let's check it out. First things first, 250 ft of Cat 6E solid bare copper CMR 600 MH MHz sunlight res- ethernet caps. RJ45 caps, I mean. Sorry. That's the proper terminology. And this thing, the uh, does everything. I mean, does crimping, cuts, strips. First thing we should probably do is just get this cable out. All right, we'll start with the cable for the modem. So, that is supposed to be 55 in. Huh. Boom, there we go. Cut my first wire. Let's go. Uh, so stripping, let's see. Da da da da. Don't quite understand the stripping part. Okay, this is I'm I'm kind of scared to strip this because like I don't want to ruin the cable. I swear the comment section's probably screaming at me like, "What the freak is this guy doing?" Come on. Okay, yeah, I'm redoing this. I don't feel confident enough. I I I do think I damaged the cable a bit here. Yeah, towards there at the base. That Yeah, it was a little bit rough during the cutting. This time we're going to do it a little bit slower. So, I think that's good enough. Let's say right there. Oh. That actually turned out a lot better. God, no. This is I'm clearly cutting the cables. Do I really have to apply less pressure? Look at that, the blue one. Dude, I'm pissed. Going to be very gentle. Very gentle. All right. This is looking better. Next thing we got to do is separate the wires out like this. Oh, yeah, can I I'm just going use scissors. What am I doing? I just use scissors like Okay, next up, untwist all four pairs of wires. All right, let's do that. All right, this part's not that bad. All right, so now we got to just match our cabling to this first image here. Okay, I'm finding this to be a lot more annoying than I thought it would be. Mainly because the wires, they really want to move back to like their original position, and I'm just trying to straighten them out. I did it. Look at that. Look, we've done it. Striped orange orange, striped green, striped green, blue. Yo, wait. No. No, no, no, no. That's supposed to be striped blue. It's like this freaking green. This green guy right here wants to be next to the blue guy really badly. Okay. I've corrected it. Last but not least, Oh. Guys, oh my god. After like over an hour, I have done the impossible. Some experienced folks here might be wondering why in the world am I using a shielded keystone jack when the um the cable itself is not shielded? To that, I say I just think it looks cool and it looks better. So, sorry. And yeah, I just had to repeat this whole process for about four or five other cables, and unfortunately, [music] it did not get easier. Actually, the second and third one took a lot longer than the first, so that's great. I definitely started getting the groove of things after the third cable. Ultimately, what I was struggling the most on was the crimping part. You probably noticed the clip before this, I was using a yellow cable crimper/cutter. Got rid of that. As you can see, I'm using a blue one now. This one definitely crimped and cut my cables a lot better. And finally, what saved me a bunch of headaches was this cable tester. Definitely worth it. All right, but now what we're going to do is start working on the server rack a little bit more because, we of course, have our 3D parts now. I did order some screws. Some screws came in the mail. All right, let's go ahead and install this thing. Just want to show you guys here what I mean. M5 screw goes here, and goes through the other piece. And then on the backside there, we're going to add the nut. My 3D prints finally arrived, and they fit perfectly. Then it came time to install the keystone jacks. And you know, for a moment, I did think, "What could be worse than crimping cables?" Surely, it couldn't be installing these keystone jacks. Well, I was wrong, unfortunately, cuz it took me like 30 minutes just to install one of these things. And it was 100% my fault because I didn't make it any easier by having the patch panel already installed into the rack. And it finally occurred to me after I spent 30 whole minutes just trying to put one of these into the patch panel. Like, look at this. I mean, like I'm putting in a considerable amount of force, and then one of them just decides to pop right out. That was so freaking annoying. Finally caught on, it was a lot easier to just remove the patch panel and then install the keystone jacks. But no, I was definitely getting very frustrated. I swear to god. Whatever. I guess force is the answer. Three down, many, many more to go. Might see the scratch marks there on the covers. Finally figured out how to properly insert the keystones. You just kind of push down with force, and don't be afraid. You'll hear a click, nice and flush with the cover. Okay. Yes. Finally. Our patch panel's beautifully set up. Our servers are beautifully mounted. The cables are already crimped, and the length is theoretically adequate, and we have our 3D printed mount for the networking stuff. However, we do have to deal with all of the networking stuff still. Put that somewhere. Well, that's the modem. Got to put that somewhere. That's the switch, I believe. Got to put that in the rack. And then over there, that's the router. Yeah, I just basically have to put things back where they're supposed to be. All right, well, I completely forgot to record this part, but I've added the router. Got a short patch cable going from the LAN port over here to our keystone jack on the backside. Cable going all the way through to the back into the modem there. Did print out this my original diagram to kind of help me walk through the re-re-networking since I'm disconnecting everything. Wish me luck, guys. So yeah, networking was the last piece of the puzzle. Everything was coming together pretty nicely, and I didn't run into any issues. That is until this happened. >> [music] >> We're officially done. And I don't live with my parents anymore. But I do miss them. Which is funny considering I started this project because the room in my parents' house was small, and I had equipment and servers everywhere, and wanted to clean it up a bit, put everything in a rack. It's funny how things work out. Anyway, we're done. Like, actually, this project is over. I don't have to crimp Ethernet cables anymore, at least anytime soon. But yeah, I learned a lot. Like, I spent way too much time just researching little things like the difference between shielded cabling versus non-shielded, how keystones work, and how to insert them because I struggled terribly doing that. That's another terrible part, right next to crimping cables. Regardless, I still ended up with this [music] beast of a rack. If you guys are thinking of doing something like this, I'm going to say, "Do it." While it's annoying, while it's tedious, and it takes up a lot of time, uh you'll learn a lot. Ultimately, you will not regret freeing yourself from big tech. Let's be real, all right? And yeah, I know that the self-hosting / homelab community is kind of obsessive in terms of the need to self-host everything. Admittedly, I've become that way. But at the end of the day, it's nice not having to pay someone to host a Minecraft server or spin up your own instance of N8N. But yeah, if you did make it this far, genuinely, thank you. I know I've been gone for a while, and I do plan on returning, making more videos. I know I made a short earlier this year. I am trying to fix up my schedule and potentially not pursue such large projects like this one. Um maybe tone it down a notch. Links for everything that I purchased is down in the description. And yeah, hopefully, I'll see you guys in the next one, this time a lot sooner. And hopefully without crimping any cables or messing around with keystone jacks. Okay. Peace.