I built Jarvis, and no, not the Marvel version, a real working AI assistant that runs my entire business. And I built it with this one tool that I'm going to show you guys today. It manages my content calendar, writes and schedules posts across four platforms, pulls my data from my CRM, handles client on boarding, generates reports, and coordinates my team. And whilst I'm on calls, it's executing tasks in the background. And whilst I'm filming this video, it's able to manage operations that I used to spend about 30 plus hours every single week doing manually. And here's the thing. I literally didn't write a single line of code. I used Clawude Code, Anthropics AI coding agent. It completely changed everything. So, in this video, I'm going to show you exactly how I built Jarvis from scratch using Claude Code from a blank terminal to a working AI assistant. I'm also going to talk through the seven workflows that Jarvis handles that saved me over 30 hours every single week. And then finally, I'm going to walk you through exactly how you can build your own in one weekend. It literally took me about a day to set this entire system up and you don't even need any coding experience at all. And if you stay to the end, I'll give you even more guidance as to how you can actually set this up and turn it into a really useful system rather than just a party trick. And I'll walk you through exactly how to connect your own tools as well. Now, if you're new to the channel, my name is Rahul and I run a six-figure AI automation agency based in London where we specialize in building AI agents to help businesses convert and nurture leads while saving money and countless hours of time. If you want to see exactly how these systems can work in your business, then hit the top link in the description below and book in a call with myself. Okay, now without further ado, let's get right into the video. So, first we're going to be talking about the problem that every single business owner has. And that problem is that you tend to be the single point of failure in your business. Every single task, every single decision, every follow-up runs through you. So, your day-to-day generally looks like this. You have emails to attend to. You have Slack messages. You've got to track the CRM updates. You may be filming content as well. You have client calls. You have invoicing, reporting, and a lot more. And all of this is manual. And the average business owner spends about 60 to 70% of their time on repetitive admin. And the traditional solutions would be to hire a VA, which still needs managing, or you can buy more software, which still needs operating, or you can just grind harder and just spend more hours working and just push through that. And ultimately, none of these actually solve the problem. You're still going to be the bottleneck in the business. One of our clients actually said this. They were running four businesses, managing clients, creating content, and coordinating a team. And every single night, they would finish work exhausted and realize that they hadn't actually done one thing that really moves the needle forward. Because they were focused on so many different things and just had so much on their plate, they could never really put so much effort into one specific task and just focus on that to really excel the business. So, what is Jarvis and why did I build it? Well, Jarvis stands for just a rather very intelligent system, exactly like Iron Man. To be honest, I didn't even know that's what it actually stood for. It literally just gave itself that abbreviation which I think it pulled from Iron Man. But I personally built it because I was drowning in operational tasks across my businesses. So I needed to do something different. I have gone down the route of hiring VAS and using them for specific tasks. But now I'm actually looking into how Jarvis can replace those tasks and make it a lot more streamlined and a lot more efficient. Now what is Jarvis? Well, first let's actually talk about what it's not. So, it's not just a chatbot that just answers simple questions and it's not just a simple automation and it's not just another AI tool where you're still doing some of the work, but what it actually is is it's an AI operating system which gives you complete business automation. It connects into all of your tools. It can execute tasks autonomously and it can work across every system simultaneously as well. So, you can basically think of it like a team member who never sleeps, works 24/7, they never forget, has memory, has a lot of context and it operates everywhere. So it can operate across your various tools, whether that be your CRM, whether that be notion, your calendar, your emails, your Slack channel. It can connect into everything. And the key difference here is most AI tools just answer questions or just pull data from different tools. Whereas Jarvis can actually take action and interact and connect all of these different tools together and actually perform tasks that you want him to do. Now, the reason I created this is because I didn't want another tool that I had to actually learn. I wanted a system that learns my business and does the work for me. So, Jarvis is so clever because it literally learns your business. It can analyze all of the data from meetings. It can analyze all of the data from your notion or your SOPs that you have documented and literally learns your business for you. So, it can then go on to perform tasks even better than you would do actually manually. And now, of course, the main system that makes this entire thing possible is Claude Code. Now, if you're not familiar with what Claude Code is, I highly recommend you look into it. It's basically Anthropic's AI coding agent, which runs in your terminal. You can also run it through the UI as well, and you can read files, you can write code, you can execute commands, and you can do this within all of the different tools that you have for your business. And the key feature is the fact that it has MCP servers. So, you can connect Claude to external tools. So this is what I mean when you can read and write data from your CRM, from Trello, from Google Sheets, notion, Slack, email, phone systems, and a lot more. You can literally connect all of these tools together and perform so many different tasks. For example, if you're running Facebook ads for a client, you can literally connect Claude code or connect Jarvis into your Facebook ads and it can give you personalized feedback. It can iterate on them. If you connect it to Facebook ads and you connect it to an AI content creation tool, it can learn exactly what's working in the Facebook ads, go create the creatives, take those new creatives, add them back into the ads, and kind of iterate on those ads for you and iterate on those creatives for you, which basically just works autonomously. And because it has so much data, it's always tracking analytics. it's ultimately going to be able to perform better than you because it just has so much data, so much context. It can also pull other results from your competitors and actually learn from those as well. Pull those learnings in and take that into account to create an insanely good system. And with this, you don't need to know how to code. So there's no traditional coding required. You literally describe exactly what you want in plain English and claude code can build it. So the key difference here is with chat GPT, it's literally suggesting you code to use. Whereas with claude code, it's actually executing actions. So it has persistent context. It has real system access using MCP. And that means it can access all of these different tools, connect them all together, and actually perform actions which give you leverage. So that's why you can literally build a complete AI system in days and not months. And I'm not just like waffling here. This is complete fact. Like you can actually do this, which is pretty crazy. So, I literally cancelled my Chat GPT subscription and switched over to Claude because of the insane benefit that you get. And with Claude, I'm on the max plan. So, that's about $200 a month. You don't need to be on that plan. You can be on the pro plan, but I highly would recommend being on the base max plan, which I believe is half of that. So, around $100 a month. And that gives you insane leverage because you can do a lot for your business. And now, I literally don't use chat GPT at all because Claude does everything that ChatGpt does and more. The only thing is with chat GPT you do get your custom GPTs which you can build but you know claude just has way more in terms of things that you can do. You can build a complete web app just with one command actually get a URL have that deployed have that working within a few seconds. Now you're probably wondering what are the actual workflows that Jarvis can handle. So I'm going to walk through each of those one by one. These are just some examples of what you can do. There's obviously way more. There's basically infinite ideas out there and you're only really limited by your imagination. I've been testing out so many different things. So, I'm going to walk through a few of them with you. So, number one is content management. Now, Jarvis literally manages my content system. So, in terms of how we plan content within the agency, we have a Trello board where we have ideas, we script, we film, we edit, and we publish. So, Jarvis literally writes and manages this content board for me. He can write and schedule LinkedIn posts, newsletter posts, school posts, YouTube descriptions, and scripts. He literally scripted this video that I'm kind of going through now. Um, he repurposes one piece of content into four platforms and gives me specific versions for those platforms as well. And he can schedule things based on the optimal posting times. So you can see here you can literally control your entire content ecosystem. Now obviously when writing content I still recommend you have that human input. So, I do obviously go over the script and make sure that I give my own input and, you know, all these LinkedIn posts aren't just AI, but it is, you know, doing most of the leg work for me because it's able to script up the initial skeleton, which I then go through and just, you know, make some tweaks and then it's pretty much ready to go. And then number two here is Jarvis can literally do my CRM and lead management for me. So, he can monitor incoming leads across all of my channels. He can give me an overview of exactly which channel the lead came through based on the activity within my CRM. He can autorespond within minutes to new inquiries. He can qualify leads based on criteria I define. He can update CRM records and tag contacts. He can he can trigger follow-up sequences based on lead behavior as well. So I literally get him to check in with my team every single week just to make sure everything is okay with them in terms of them understanding the task and also just keeping them motivated as well, which is pretty insane. Jarvis will literally connect into my WhatsApp, send out those WhatsApp messages and also track everything within the CRM. So we have a log of everything and Jarvis basically knows everything in his knowledge base as well. And then we can also automate the client on boarding. So if a new client signs up, Jarvis can literally handle the first 48 hours in terms of importing them, getting all the information that we need. We can send welcome emails, collect information, create project boards. So Jarvis is connected into my emails, connecting into my notion, and he can literally control those channels as well. So he can send and receive emails, he can he can create project boards in notion, and he can actually keep those up to date as well. So he can set up their workspace generally within notion and he can schedule kickoff calls as well. So he can schedule calls into our calendar. He connects into my CRM which is go high level and he can do a lot within there as well and then obviously notify the team in terms of everything. He can also do email and communication. So he can draft and send routine emails. He can respond to common inquiries in my exact tone and style. And he's basically trained off my tone and style just based off everything I've written in my notion board already. So he can go through my notion board. He can go through all my past content, see exactly what my tone and style is and replicate that, which is insane. And he can flag anything that needs my personal attention as well. He can manage follow-ups so nothing falls through the cracks. And then he can also do reporting and analytics. So he can generate weekly reports based on everything. So he can pull data from my Stripe, from my CRM, from Trello, from Google Analytics. He can summarize revenue, give me forecasts for revenue. can also summarize my pipeline, my content performance and client status and send all of these reports to my inbox every single Monday morning. And then of course we can do team coordination with Jarvis as well. So he can assign tasks to each team member based on specific project statuses. He can send reminders and follow-ups on overdue items. He can track progress across multiple projects simultaneously and actually flag blockers before they become problems. So I use him for a lot of team coordination in terms of checking in with the team um and actually sending the messages keeping them motivated and just you know checking with them basically on a weekly basis which is pretty useful because I don't have to do that manually and he literally does it. I've woken up and it's already been done. So it's so useful to have that. The number seven here is research and intelligence. You can monitor competitors. You can track industry trends and market opportunities. You can pull data from multiple sources. You can summarize findings in a format that I can actually just quickly skim through and understand immediately. You can feed insights back into any content and sales strategies as well. So, one thing that we do is we've connected Ampify into Jarvis, which is insane because if you're not aware of what Amplify is, they basically have a marketplace of different APIs. So, you can scrape data from a ton of different things, literally every single source that is available. So, for YouTube content, I've connected it up to different channels. So scraping some competitors and some other channels to gain ideas and actually reinforce that back into my content so we can make it better. Same with LinkedIn um and same with other kind of content sources as well. So it's literally able to analyze competitor data every single bit like in terms of what hooks they're using in terms of how they structure their in terms of what sort of analytics in terms of views you know retention those and that those pieces of content are getting. So it can feed that data back into my system and I can then improve things over time. So there's a ton that you can actually use Jarvis for. And before using Jarvis, I was doing all of these things manually every single day. Whereas now I can automate so much more and it just saves me so much time in the process. Okay, so now let's actually talk about the tech stack and the tools that work under the hood. So it has simple but powerful tools, right? We're using claw code which is the brain. It basically connects everything and makes all the decisions. It's basically the central intelligence. Then we have the connectors, the MCP servers. So essentially what happens here is we're giving Claude access to various different tools. So this could be go high level, Trello, NA10, stripe, sheets or air table and notion. So it can literally go into my CRM which is go high level send out SMS messages, send out WhatsApp messages, emails, can also go through call recordings and transcripts for like phone calls. Um it can analyze my pipeline. It can can also look at my workflows as well and actually plan out different architecture that I should can go through Trello which is what we use for content management. So it can look at all the cards, all of the scripts that we've used in the past, and it gets so much detail in there. Then NA10, it can go through and create workflows as well. So it will create a workflow, will test it, and then if there's an error, it will actually go back and iterate and kind of fix that as well, which is pretty crazy. And then Stripe for payment and revenue tracking, sheets or air table for data storage and reporting, notion, which is where a lot of our SOPs and we have a lot of client information there as well. So it pulls that data from there. So it has fully modular architecture. So you can actually swap out any tool for whatever you already use and you can also add way more tools in there as well. So you're not just limited to having six tools. We've connected way more tools in addition to these but these are just the core ones that we use. So you can connect you know HubSpot instead of go high level or asana instead of Trello or Confluence or ClickUp instead of notion. So the beauty of this setup is that you can swap out any tool. You can add whatever tool that you already use and you can basically just have Jarvis interact with every single tool that you you know want it to. Okay. Okay, so now let's actually talk about the prompt architecture that makes Jarvis work. So Jarvis runs on a layered prompt system which separates a useful AI from a novelty. So what we have is the core identity. So we have layer one which is who Jarvis works for, business context, communication style, decision-m priorities as well. Then layer two which is like tool instructions. So what exactly each system each connected tool actually does and how Java should use it. Memory system which is client history, project details, team preferences, past decisions. Layer four, which is the workflow triggers. So, it's specific scenarios that activate multi-step processes. And then layer five is the guardrail. So, so what Jarvis should never do without human approval. So, this is kind of how it works in terms of how we've sort of prompted it and kind of educated Jarvis over time. So, Jarvis also stores all of this data within its markdown file. So, within Claude Code, you have a claude.md file, which you've probably heard of from various other creators, but it basically allows you to have so much more context in there as well. So, one thing I've done, which is a pretty clever trick, is to go into chat GPT, export all of the previous memory and context, and then input that into Jarvis or into Clawude Code, and then Claude Code can literally take all of that context and train Jarvis on that. So, you can have all of that information in your Claude.md file. You can have all of that information embedded into the different skills you create within your claw code environment as well. So anyone can get AI to answer a question. You literally just have to ask chat GPT. But the difference is building a system that remembers your business, knows your clients, understands your priorities, and takes action without having to be micromanaged. And some of the real results that you can see after 30 days are before using Jarvis, you know, we were spending 50 plus hours every single week on operations admin. After using Jarvis, you can cut that down to less than 20 hours. A lot of my tasks have cut down by over 50% in terms of the length that they take because of implementing Jarvis and obviously by implementing a system like this you can actually spend more time on the business with a highle overview actually analyzing the different components one of which is obviously Javvis apart from obviously your team members and then you can see exactly how things are working which allows you to iterate faster and optimize faster and ultimately be more efficient in the long term as well so you can really streamline the business and scale faster overall. Okay, so now I've literally gone over exactly what benefits Javvis can give you, which sounds amazing, but you guys are probably wondering, how do you actually build your own Jarvis in less than a weekend as well? It literally took me a day to start building this out. And then I had an MVP and I was able to iterate on that over time, obviously, just by kind of playing around with it and seeing what possible things I could add in. But let me walk you through exactly how you can actually build this out for yourself. Okay, so first you want to start with one high impact workflow. So what's the highest impact workflow that you could start with? For me it was content because I spent a lot of time just preparing content, understanding the content that I want to create and actually, you know, figuring out the strategy. So, so if you start with the highest impact, lowest effort workflow, you can go ahead and get a lot of leverage just from that. So you want to pick one task that you repeat the most often. That could be email responses, content scheduling, content strategy, lead follow-up, or reporting. You then need to install clawed code and actually connect it to those relevant tools using the MCP servers. So for example for me for content it would be Trello um it would be ampify so I can actually pull data from competitors connect up to those two tools and then I can actually write content automatically. So Trello would basically just be an MCP server that you connect and you literally just ask clawed code can you connect to Trello and it would give you the steps. I think people over complicate this and they feel like they have to Google everything. But Claude Code literally can give you every single information you need. So if you want to connect to the MCP server of a specific tool, you can ask it, does this tool have this MCP server? How do I connect to this tool? How can I do this within this tool? And how can I, you know, make this process better? And it can literally recommend different things for you. So you can connect up your Trello, you can connect up your Ampify, and you can connect up specific Ampify agents or Ampify bots. I can't remember the specific terminology. And you can literally connect up specific Ampify agents and actually go ahead and use those tools exactly how you see fit. And then of course you can write the prompt. So you can define what Java should do, when, and how in clear language. And then you can test, refine, and expand. Now it's worth noting this is an example of how you would use clawed code. If you want to set up something like Jarvis, which is more autonomous, that is a different process. So, let me run you through that process quickly now. But for Jarvis, what you need is a platform like Hostinger. So, you need a VPS, which is a virtual private server. That would be something like Hostinger, which is what I use. And on Hostinger, it's super straightforward. You just have to go into Hostinger, set up an account. You pay about £10 a month I believe it is, which is equivalent of like $135 every single month and you basically have Jarvis set up on a remote server. Um, and Jarvis is basically a wrapper on clawed code. So Claude code essentially can be running on this remote server which is you know your virtual private server via hostinger and then you can train that specifically how you want it to perform. So from there you can connect that instance of claude code which is on the VPS. You can connect that into Telegram which you can control from your phone and through Telegram you can have a bot which you can set up as Jarvis and you can then interact with it via your phone. So you can schedule tasks. One thing I've done is connected Jarvis into my Google calendar and actually set up a separate calendar specifically for Jarvis. So he analyzes all of my tasks. He analyzes his own tasks as well. So I set repeated tasks for him. As soon as the time hits for that task to be completed, Jarvis will literally go through and execute that workflow and give me updates on my phone in real time as well, which is pretty crazy. And it's worth noting you can literally build this whole process directly from your clawed code. So the first step here is to install clawed code on your laptop and start using it within the CLI. Now the CLI is the command line interface. That might sound confusing and at first it will be, but if you go ahead and just play around with it, you'll start to understand exactly how it works. It's pretty straightforward. On Mac, it's literally the terminal window here that I've got open and you can go ahead and actually control your claw code from there and you get way more power because it can access all of your files. You can connect it up to different tools. You can also have like seven different instances open. So, I literally build seven different things at once um just with seven different tabs in terminal. So I highly recommend going and starting there. And then from there you literally just have to ask claude code to connect to a virtual private server. You set up the server on hostinger and then you just provide the details to claude code and it will connect to that using a method called SSH which is basically just a way of remotely logging in to the virtual private server from your local computer. And then what will happen is your clawed code will basically control that remote server and can install things like the clawed code on that server and also you can remotely host NA10 as well on that server which will be a lot cheaper than what you might be currently doing in terms of hosting NA10 uh you know through NA10 itself. So yeah those are a few things that you can have a play around with but if you have any questions obviously just drop a comment down below. Um, but yeah, so the main thing here is you can literally have a workflow live within a weekend and within a month you can have all seven workflows built out, which basically means you can streamline your business and cut time by like 50 to 75% if you aren't already automating within your business. And you don't even need to be technical. I think there's a big misunderstanding because a lot of people think, you know, it's called clawed code, so you need to be able to code, but you don't need to code in this day and age. AI literally does everything for you. You just go ahead and prompt the system. You ask Claude code, "How do I build this web app?" And it will literally either give you a plan or you can just tell it, you know, build me this, and it will just build it within a matter of minutes, which is pretty crazy. And yeah, it's just the world we live in now, which is absolutely insane. And yeah, if you're not taking advantage of Clawude Code and not using these tools right now, you will be left behind. Obviously, you've probably heard that time and time again, but this is genuinely a big pivotal shift in the AI space. So, I highly recommend going and actually playing around with this tool. And obviously, if you want to get an edge over these things, you can just book in a call with ourselves and we can actually set this up for you and optimize it for you as well. So, if you're a business owner and you're tired of being the bottleneck in your own company, then click the top link in the description below to book a free intro call with myself where I will personally run through your business and map out exactly where we can help you in terms of implementing AI. And I'll map out exactly how this Java system would work well for your specific business and which workflows you should automate first and how quickly you can actually get it up and running. And there's no pressure and no fluff, just a clear plan to help you guys out. So, drop a comment down below and tell me what's one task that you wish you could hand off to an AI assistant and I'll let you know if that's actually possible. So, that's it for now. Subscribe for more AI automation content and a lot more to come on Claude Code and I'll see you guys in the next video. Thanks for watching. See you guys in the next