OpenAI just dropped their very first open-source model since GPT2 and it's a gamecher. It runs 100% locally, costs $0, and performs on par with GPT4 level models like 03 and04 Mini. In this video, I'll show you how to spin it up on your own machine, integrate it with N8, and start using it inside fully automated AI agents. No API keys required and no cloud dependencies. Let's build. All right, here is the game plan to get GPTOSS up and running locally inside of NADN. The first step we have to do here is getting our NADN instance installed and set up to run locally. We're going to use Docker for this just to make everything easier. After that's done, the next step we have to do here is install this piece of software called Olama. You can think of Olama as this piece of software that makes it easy for us to manage, download, and actually prompt against large language models on our own machine, laptop, or other device. This is just going to make life a lot easier and help us avoid dealing with any extra programming scripts or other code that we have to run. After that's done, we then need to install the GPT OSS model through Olama so we're actually able to use that in our connected nodes. And finally, we can hook up the Olama chat model inside NADN so we can start building, prompting, and shipping software against it. Let's go ahead and dive in with setting up NAN locally. So, I'm here on the NADN documentation page for getting up and running with NADN hosted locally by using Docker. I do recommend you host it with Docker because it's just easy to spin up and tear down if something goes wrong. And I'm just a big fan of Docker in general and use that in my day-to-day development. So, the prerequisite that they mention here is you need Docker Desktop installed on your computer before you can get up and running. I already have this, but I'll briefly show you guys the setup steps you need to go through. So, if you come up to the top here, click on Docker, you're going to be able to download Docker Desktop for the operating system that you're on. I'm on Apple Silicon, but if you have Windows or Linux, make sure you're grabbing that right one. Go through the setup wizard and install steps just to make sure that's up and running. And on Mac, I can see that it is running here by this, you know, green dot and Docker Desktop is running. If you're on a different operating system, you can also pull up the terminal, go ahead and just type Docker in the command line. And if everything was installed correctly, you should see this help command printed out that shows you everything that you can do with it. So if you see something like this, that means you're all set. The next step here is going to be scrolling down and going into this starting NAD section. So the first thing we got to do is open up our terminal and copy this first command here, which is going to create this volume docker volume create nad data. This is essentially going to create something on our file system that allows us to save our workflows, executions, debug data, all that NAND creates even if we have to restart NADN in the middle of, you know, a system reboot or for whatever reason. If you don't have this and you end your Docker container, which is just like an instance of NAD running, you're going to lose that data. So, make sure you don't skip this step when you're getting set up. So, I'll copy this. We'll go ahead clear this out in my command line. And we can see that madn data was created. And so then if I do docker volume ls that is going to list out all of the volumes we have installed on our machine. And so we can see I have on my local machine we have the nadn volume created which matches exactly what we need. Let's go forward to the next step here which is going to be setting up and running the naden instance itself. So using docker run and then a couple arguments are going to get passed in here that spins up our nadn docker container which is the nadn server on our own machine and is going to bind all of the data that nadn creates to that volume we made earlier. And so make sure you're not skipping anything here. Once again I'll copy this. I'll paste it in. And if everything worked correctly, we're going to see this message down here that says editor is now accessible via this localhost URL. Let's grab that and see if we're able to now pull up our NAN local instance. And so perfect. Everything is set up here. And if you're seeing this for the first time, you'll need to make your local account. And we should be able to skip through this onboarding session to get into our NAND dashboard just like we see on the cloud version. So that completes it here for the initial NADN cloud setup. Pretty easy to get up and running with Docker and that is a path I suggest you take when building locally with NADN. All right, so that finishes up everything for step number one for setting up our Naden instance locally. It's time to move to step number two, which is going to involve setting up Olama. I'm going to come over to olama.com. Go ahead and click on download on the homepage and then pick the operating system I need to download this for. I'm on Mac, so I'll go ahead and download that. And this is going to give me this DMG file that I'm going to be able to execute as soon as it opens up. So, I'll click this, be able to drag that into my applications folder. And since I already have this, I'm just going to stop. But on your side, make sure you just continue forward with that process or follow the install steps you need for your specific operating system. That's all we have to do for now. A very easy setup step. And if you remember from the overview, Olama is going to be the piece of software we use to download, manage, and chat with large language models on our own computer. So, we just completed setting up Olama on our own laptop. It's time to move to step number three, which is going to be installing the GPT OSS model inside of Olama so we can then chat against it and power our AI applications inside NADN. So, let's go over here to this tab I've set up. It's under um.com under library and then GPTOSS. And so, if you want to search for this, you can just search GPT OSS. And this is going to give you the setup steps to get up and running. We want to go ahead and run this latest version of GPTOSS. And so I'm going to copy the model name here. And then inside our terminal, we need to run O Lama run GPToss. So let's go ahead and do that now. So we'll go O Lama run. And then we'll paste in that GPOSS colon latest model version that we saw on the table. And so I'll hit enter. And that's going to go ahead and get started pulling in the open model weights for GPOSS that we're going to be able to use and run actually on our laptop instead of having to call into OpenAI's API. Everything is going to run completely for free and locally on our computer. So, I'm going to let this run for a second and then I'll be back as soon as that finishes. All right, we're back here and we can see that the download here has completed to 100%. And if you see the writing manifest and the success message here at the bottom, you're good to go with the latest version of GPTOSS installed on your computer. Let's see if we can chat against it here in the terminal. Let's say, write me a poem about NAN. Let's see what it does. And so once again, this is all running here locally. And we can see I'm just on a I think a MacBook M2 hardware. So, not even the latest version of MacBook Pro and we're getting a pretty instant response back here from this model. So, that looks pretty cool. Let's um see if we can exit out of this because we're going to need to run this a little bit differently when it comes time to connect this to an ADN. So, we have our GPT OSS model now installed locally through Olama. It's time to move on to the final step, which is going to be hooking up an Olama chat model inside of Naden. that's going to be connecting to and talking with the Olama model we just installed. The first thing we got to do here before diving into NADN is going to be running one more simple command in our terminal. And so we have Docker still open here. And then in this separate terminal over here, we need to spin up an O Lama server that is going to host the chat model locally on our machine that NAN is going to be able to reach out and talk to. So, we're going to come over here and run one more command, which is going to be Olama serve. It's going to spin up that Olama software we already downloaded. And so, if you see a message here, um, like some of these IP addresses appearing on the local IP and you see this message that says listening on 127.0.0.1, that means everything's working as expected here. And then we're just going to leave this terminal open and not touch it for now. Let's go back to NADN. Let's go back to NADN and get started building a brand new workflow here that is going to connect to our Olama chat model. Let's make this just a manual trigger. And let's hook up a new LLM chain node here that is going to let us use Olama to make a single chat call. So, we'll pull this in. Let's go ahead and add Olama Olama chat model from the right hand side here which is going to be our credential that allows us to connect from NNN to the server that we just spun up. So in order to create this credential we'll come here click create new credential and we're going to see this base URL says this local host value. I can click save but that's going to give us an error right off the bat because we're using Docker. There's one other step we have to follow in order to get this connected and working to power our automations. I found this from this uh self-hosted AI starter kit on GitHub that sets up something very similar with self-hosted NAD and Olma. If I search for local host on this, we can see that in order to connect from our Docker container that's hosting NAD to the service that's running on our computer, which is Olama hosting the chat model. We do need to switch a URL here and that is going to be changing the base URL to this http host.docker.in internal and it's going to be this port number. So make sure you go ahead and copy this exact value. And when we come over to our base URL here inside our Olama account credential we're trying to set up, we can click save and then that connection is going to be successful. So that tells us that NAND is now connected to Olama and we're going to be able to chat together. Let's exit out and get started with the rest of this build. So we have this connected. We have our basic LLM chain set up here. Let's go ahead and do a quick set field result and let's see this automation in action. But before we do that, let's add in a prompt here and actually tell our LLM to do something. So, let's have it write a LinkedIn post comparing naden versus make.com. So, let's execute model llama 3.2 not found. So, it looks like I missed one setup step here. And so, let's click into the tool. Let's pull up our GPTOSS colon latest model here, which is going to be GPTOSS that we just downloaded. And let's give that one more shot. So we can see this running here which is good. And then if I pull up my terminal again and we go to our O Lama tab, we can see that this is actually processing and our NADN instance has connected to this Olama server and is interacting with GPT OSS. So this is spinning and working locally. Um compared to a typical Open AI API call, this is actually going to take a little bit longer. And so that's something to keep in mind when you're building here. um it's going to depend on the capabilities of your own laptop, your own desktop computer. If you have a GPU, that's going to allow it to go much faster. So, just be aware of that when you're building on our text field here. Let's go ahead and grab in the text result so we can see what this looks like. So, there we go. There is the simple setup for getting an LLM chain call working locally using GPTOSS. Let's go a step further and see if this works with the agent nodes inside of naden. So, I'll go ahead and add in a new chat trigger. We'll drag that in and let's add our agent node here and see if we can get this connected and running. I'll go ahead and pull this down. I'll drag in my chat model here, which looks like it's going to work. Let's add some simple memory and let's see if we can get a tool working here, too. So let's do just the thing tool for now and see if it's able to call into tools and do that effectively. We'll do another set field and let's see if we can get something running here just by opening up the chat. Think deeply about the differences in andmake.com and write me a LinkedIn post breaking down the pros and cons of each. So we'll send that in. We're going to see our AI agent node running here calling into the chat model. If I pull up the terminal for our Olama server, we're going to see this is running once again. And let's see if we're able to get this think tool called here. It does look like the memory was getting used as expected. And let's just wait a bit for that result. And there it is. We can see our think tool was executed during the log of this AI agents loop that was running forward. And if we pull up the result, let's drag in the output and we can see what we got here. So again, n versus make breaks down a markdown formatted output of this LinkedIn post and gives us some details here. So this looks great. Once again, pretty incredible for local AI models running here. And honestly, wasn't that slow here compared to some of the other models I've tried in the past. So I think this is going to open up a lot for local development and really allow AI developers, builders, agencies to start building, bundling and selling products to industries where it wasn't always possible before like defense, healthcare, legal things where privacy was a huge concern and API based large language models weren't able to be used. So very excited about this for the future. Hope you guys found something helpful here. Definitely let me know what you plan on building with GPTOSS. I'm excited to hear about it. >> All right, before you go, make sure to hit the like and subscribe button. Seriously, do it because we're going to be breaking down all of the AI automations that we use to run all of our businesses. They're super helpful and we're going to break down exactly how we do them on this YouTube channel. So, make sure like and then subscribe and then you'll get notified when we publish new workflows that can make your businesses run 20 times more efficiently, just like we're seeing here at the recap. and the other businesses that we're running. The other item is join our school community for free. The links in the description. You'll be able to get this template, this automation that we just ran through in this video completely for free. You can go to school and navigate to the video that you want and then you can download the JSON output for the NAN automation. So like and subscribe. Join our free community to get this automation for yourself.