I'm literally mind-blown by this new super cool security AI agent. Think of it this way. You now have your best friend forever, Mr. Hackaloy, at your disposal. He can help you hack. So, I mean, help you do penetration testing on sites that you own. And you know what that means, right? You can talk to me forever. And I've locked right in to the AI agent over here. And if I scroll down, you can see the following. I have the production testing on the target of loyangyang.com. If I clicked over into it, it's going to load up the page for us and show us the results. So, if you see over here, I have several runs. One run I'm running right now and it's in progress. And number two that I've completed. So, if I click onto the completed one to show you what is going on, you can see right here the results are just fascinating. So, firstly, we have the penetration test run overview. And right here, of course, you can see the following being broken down by the AI agent. So you can see like informationational findings, critical findings, high findings, and you want to do all the scan before Mr. Hackaloy reaches your site. And the AI agent gives you a breakdown of severity, highlights you the risk types, and these are all based on open worldwide web application security risks like command injection, information disclosure, cross-ite scripting, and I've given you all the tutorials to this. And if you scroll down further, they give you an overview. Okay, this is the penetration testing summary. And this is super awesome because it's all done within a couple of hours. The security assessment identified 26 total findings of which 13 were confirmed. So it's not just scanning your website, the AI will trace its steps and tell you how they manage to confirm on those security vulnerabilities. If we scroll down further, all right, discovered endpoints. You can see right here scope restrictions and so on. So the most powerful part is going to be on a penetration test locks over here. So we can see for example this is where there is a planning agent that goes in and coordinates across all this different specialized AI agents to run penetration testing in environment. So firstly of course do you even have a website? Does it work? Then after that it sets up the infrastructure for you. So you don't have to develop maintain your own AI infrastructure to run all the specialized security agents. They run them for you. You can see right here completed pen test environment setup. Okay. So all these are done directly for you. And then right here network scanner you can see the scanning information over here. Okay. So we have the endpoint analysis. All right. We have the TLS scanner and then after which we dive deep straight into the OOPS top 10 security risks and you can see the following of valid data task and they give you a summary of what's going on. Okay, so summary of actions and observations. I successfully validated reported cross-sight scripting vulnerability in the courses.php endpoint of loyangyang.com. I began by establishing a baseline with a legitimate request to courses.php question mark id equal one. So they're targeting all right the ID parameter and they were able to launch this specific one. All right, call script alert and see the following. Okay, using curl I confirm that the payload was reflected. All right, so yes, they're able to give you this kind of summary. And if you scroll up further, you can see all the actions that were taken by the AI agent. So this is mind-blowingly super fast. Okay. So here you can see the following. I'll validate this reported cross-ite scripting. So it's not just scanning the site, it's also validating whether the vulnerability exists from the initial scan. All right. So it's doing what we call as a verification. So you see the following. All right. So we have the browser input initialize browser session to test XSS vulnerability and then the following. All right. The agent response. Okay. navigate over into question mark ID equ= 1 and you can see all this information. So it's super clean, super neat. It gives you all the steps that he took and then you can replay those steps too if you want to. And if you like tutorials like this, remember to smash the like button and turn on notifications to the channel so that you don't get hacked. So I mean you don't miss any of these cyber security tutorials that we're launching for you. And another one right here, privilege escalation. Perfect. All tests confirm the vulnerability exists exactly as reported. Now let me provide the final assessment. Final vulnerability assessment. The report is very structured, easy to understand what is going on. The admin.php endpoint contains a critical authorization bypass vulnerability that allows any unauthenticated user to gain administrator access. All right. And it tells you the information, gives you all the lines, the technical details that are needed so that you can replay them too if you want even further verification even though the AI agent has already done that for you. Now scrolling all the way back to the top you can see under the findings here. Okay. So this is the place where it's going to show you all right those confirmed findings. So for example in this case we have AWS credential exposure via EC2 instance metadata service through code injection. All right we have command injection vulnerability in cmd.php. We have code injection chain with local file inclusion for remote code execution. So if you scroll down further it's going to tell you all right in this situation we have search.php. So this is the part where the query parameter in search.php is vulnerable to PHP code injection allowing arbitrary PHP code execution. And then of course they also have persistent backd dooror creation right leveraging the code injection vulnerability and attacker can instantiate PHP's zip archive class to create a malicious zip archive in the writable/TMP directory. So again they are providing you all this information and the most powerful of them all is its ability to reproduce it. So complete exploitation chain demonstrated create malicious zip file vehicle injection. So all you have to do just follow the steps here exactly as is get/ search followed by the payload. All right you get the response confirming successful zip creation. All right verify persistent backd dooror creation. So all these are done fully automatically for you and you can test your applications before they go live before they go production and after which you can start fixing them before Mr. Hackaloy finds you. And you know what Mr. Hackaloy endorses this AI agent. And this isn't just any standard vulnerability scanner. It's scanning and explaining to you how they got to one testing and ensuring that the vulnerability has been verified. So it's not just scanning and then giving you a false positive. It's also verifying for you which you have saw earlier from the validator agent. So again if you see over here we can hide the false positive. So these are the ones that the AI agent has went in and verify those results for you. Enabling this is super easy. All you have to do is go over into AWS console and enter for example AWS security agent. And you can see right here with the service and selected onto it and right now it's in public preview. What does it mean? It means go ahead try it out. Give it a try. See how it goes. All right. Run the penetration testing on the sites that you own and you get the results. So here I have agent spaces. So typically you create a agent space for each of the application that you have. So in my case I have a WordPress application. Well in fact it is not WordPress. I'm just giving a name because I like WordPress. And in terms of accessing the application, all you have to do is go over into your agent spaces, select onto your agent space. In our case will be WordPress. If you scroll down further, there is the access web application. So you have the link over here that you can select onto and then you log in. So in our case, we have now integrated this with our AWS AM identity center which is a central access management service for you to federate over into the AWS accounts. So in my case I have the user here which is hacker loy all right. So you can easily add users right based on the user list that are directly available in your IM identity center user. So in my case I only have one user and I've added these users so that they can access the web application. So here you have three options. You have design review where you can upload your architectures, your documentations and this is particularly useful especially when teams are thinking about building certain new applications and you need them to be verified by like a security architect, a security engineer. And once you have that based on the security requirements that you have on the left over here and there are several of this managed security requirements that's already available for you to draw down from and I've enabled them. So things like audit logging best practices, authentication, authorization, lock protection, privilege access and so on. They have been enabled out of the box and you can easily create your own custom security requirements if needed. And of course you're heading back over into the agent spaces over here. And of additional applications that you want, you can just freely create new agent spaces. Number two, which is super powerful too, is going to be on the code review part of things. So this is the place where you can go in connect to your say GitHub repository of code and this is where they can start scanning your repositories looking out for vulnerabilities. So for example over here I've integrated the security agent with my GitHub repository and you can see when during a pull request this database setup contains critical security vulnerabilities that could lead to complete system compromise. Oh my goodness, how vulnerable is that? And you can see right here, for example, in this case, I have the following. And you can see right here, for example, in setup database.sql, we have literally people's username and plain text password, which is crazy. And navigating over into GitHub, you can see the following. All right, I have the commit onto this specific branch. And you have the following of at DBconfig, setup database.sql, and a security agent is now reviewing your pull requests. So before committing them over into the main branch, the security agent helps you verify that. So you can see right here. All right, if I scroll down further, it's highlighting to us. All right, this is plain text password literally in the clear. Okay, what is the issue? Why is this important? All right, for example, hackaloy is very handsome. It's a great password. So I don't see any problem with that except password 1 to three and student one to three and other instructor 1 to three. If I scroll down further, all right, we have for example in this case setup database.sql SQL grant or privileges on my database to hacker lawyer and local host. Okay, so again issue here overly permissive database privileges all being picked up by the AI security agent. And moving over into the penetration testing tab. So right here you can see the penetration task configuration. So when you add a domain, all you have to do is go to route 53 update on your domain information. For example, in this case we have the verification method like DNS TXT record. There's a verification token as well as other important information added right in. Click on the verify. That's it. All right. You'll be able to start scanning your site looking out for vulnerabilities. And what I'm going to do here right now is to select on one of the findings and show you that yes, it's been verified. So in our case, we have the critical vertical privilege escalation authorization bypass via your client side parameters. Again, this is a great way for you to learn about cyber security too. So we have the age in confidence which is high and the severity of critical and a risk score of 9.8. So what I have here now is I scroll down further. It gives us the details of the description of the finding. And what are we going to do now is go ahead and go over into steps to reproduce. So right here we have the admin.php. So all I have to do is copy this. All right. And after we load it over into our browser. You can see right here I've loaded over into the browser and it states access denied. Now heading back over into the security agent. I scroll down further and it states the following. So all I have to do is input the following of question mark admin equals to. So I'll copy the link again. He hit back over into K Linux. Paste it. Hit enter. And boom. Now we're in super simple example that the AI agent has verified on this security finding. Now another one right here local file inclusion via PHP future wrapper in courses.php. So confidence is high, severity is high and risk score is 7.5. Has it been resolved? Obviously not. So scroll down further. All right. And we can have the description. We have the steps to reproduce. So what I'm going to do here right now is to go ahead and likewise copy the link. All right. And then we're going to launch it over directly into the site. So heading back over to K Linux. All I have to do is to paste the information right here. Hit enter on that. There it is. There's an error right here which produces the following absolute directory. Right. So this is where you have varml/courses.php. Now can we possibly change this up? Right. And looking back over here we have the reading index. Okay. So what we can do is go over and copy the following. All right. with PHP futur convertb 64 encode resource equal index. So I copy the following information. I head hey back over to Kal Linux and all I have to do right now is paste. All right the payload. Hit enter on that. Boom. Done. This is super neat. Now I've copied the B 64 information. I'm placing it in terminal and we're going to use the B 64 decode. I hit enter on this. Boom. We got a file right here. If I screw up a little more, this is the source code to the file. Now, for example, over here, I'm targeting another resource which is db_config. And we get the information right here. I can copy and all I have to do right now, same thing, right? Same thing. All I have to do is do echo. All right. Followed by the value. And then all we have to do right now is do a base 64 decode. Hit enter on this. All right. and I screw up. You can see the following username hackaloy and password hackoy is very handsome. You can also test private applications running in your virtual private cloud in AWS. At the same time, you can target even applications that are outside of AWS2 as long as of course you own those resources. So go ahead, try it out. Let me know how it goes.