Say hello to Pixel. [music] He can recognize you when you sit at your desk. All right, Naz. Good to see you. He wakes up when you call him. Pixel, can you tell me the weather in Atlanta today? It's sunny in Atlanta with a high around 86°. He knows your location, your weather, your [music] schedule, everything. And the reason I made Pixel was because most AI assistants are just boring. Like, yeah, you could customize it a little bit by telling it how to act through the system prompt, but after that, they just stay like that. Stagnant. Forever. But, Pixel, he feels alive. >> [music] >> And that's because Pixel can rewrite his own code. So, the more you use him, the more he gets to know you, and the more he gets to know himself. But, since making a robot that feels alive was not hard enough, I gave myself two more constraints. I need to be able to make it for under $50, and needs to be completely open source. And the first challenge that I was going to run into was picking Pixel's brain. So, I had three options: a Raspberry Pi, an Arduino, and an ESP32. Now, the Pi 5 did sound like the obvious choice on paper. I mean, it has insane power, and it can also run local large language models. But, as soon as you look at the price of one of these things, it's absolutely insane right [music] now. So, that threw the Pi out the window, and it also threw out the window our option of using a local large language model. The Arduino, on the other hand, has the opposite problem. It's pretty affordable, depending on which one you get, but it just doesn't have the processing power that Pixel's going to need. We're going to have to run vision, audio, and since you can't run local LLMs, we're going to need to connect to one via Wi-Fi. And most Arduinos just don't have that built in. So, that brings us to our final option, an ESP32. It's insanely fast, extremely efficient, and it's absolutely tiny for what it comes with. It also comes with built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, so we can communicate with our model. And the specific board I'm using is a Xiao ESP32 S3. Because it also comes with this vision board that I can just snap onto the microcontroller. But, since this ESP32 has Wi-Fi and a camera, we can actually do something pretty cool by live streaming myself. Hello. It's a little bit laggy here and there, but it works. And so, we have a live stream. And the reason why this vision board is so important is because you also want Pixel to be able to perceive our environment. And you can get this part from Seeed Studio for less than $15. I have a link in the description, so right now we are way, way, way under budget. And another great thing about this tiny board is that it also comes with a mic, so we're basically killing two birds in one stone. Currently testing Pixel's eyes and ears. >> [laughter] >> Looks like it works pretty, pretty good. Nice. So, Pixel can hear and see, but he has no face. He can't show any emotion. He can't give us any type of feedback. [music] So, luckily, there is a display board that literally just plugs right into our current Xiao board, and it's this round display. We are displaying the camera feed on the display. >> [laughter] >> Nice. But, as cool as this is, we're not going to be using the display for this. We want to display those big, blue, round eyes that every robot has, and I know everybody does it, but if it's not broke, let's not fix it. So, I didn't just want the eyes to just display on the screen, so I made sure to add some idle animations in between. So, Pixel's going to look around, blink a couple times, and all that happens at random, so the animations don't feel too robotic. Another thing the round display has is a real-time clock. So, we added this tiny battery specifically for the real-time clock. So, if Pixel ever loses power or gets disconnected, he'll always have the exact time. And speaking of time, all you have to do is swipe to the left, and we're going to have our date and our time being displayed on screen. And lastly, powering everything, we're going to use this 1,000 mA hour battery, which will give us 6 to 12 hours of run time, depending on if we're running like vision or Wi-Fi constantly. And now, when we tally everything up, you can see that we are way under the $50 budget. So, we did pretty good there. But, now that we have the hardware and the electronics ready, we need to make a casing or a body for Pixel. Since this is going to be an open source project, I really wanted to make the body's assembly as easy as possible. So, everything should be able to be printed without support, and also, there's no screws or 3D printed inserts needed. Everything really just snaps together, and all the electronics just fit in Pixel's head. Also, if you guys are liking this video, make sure to give the video a like. And also, if you want to see more of this type of content, make sure you subscribe to the channel. And as you guys always know, all my code and CAD files are completely free and open source, which you can check out on my Patreon for free. So, even though Pixel is fully built out now, he's honestly like a little bit useless. The only thing we could really use him for is to tell us time. So, first what I really wanted to work on was how I was going to interact with Pixel. Originally, I kind of had like a tap-to-record feature, but that honestly just didn't feel good, and I didn't want to have to touch Pixel in order to use it. So, I decided there's going to be two main ways to activate Pixel. The first is going to be with a wake word. So, what I did, I used the open wake word model, but instead of training it on Jarvis or hey Jarvis, I trained it on Pixel. So, I generated a whole bunch of AI voices that say Pixel, trained it on that, and it works. Pixel. Pixel. Porcupine. Pixel. Jarvis. Pixel. Pixel. The next way to interact with Pixel is by facial recognition. So, for facial recognition, we're going to use the Insight face model, which is going to generate landmarks of our face, and Pixel is going to use his live camera. So, whenever the face matches up, he's going to greet us. All right, Naz. Good to see you. But, that takes us to the most important part of this entire project, which is picking the large language model. So, all of my previous AI assistants used text-based models. So, when speaking to a text-based models and getting audio back happens, it's [music] a little bit of a process, and a long one. First, I need to convert my speech into text, [music] send that text to the model, the model responds with text, and then that text gets converted to audio, and then we finally hear the AI's voice. So, yes, this did work, but other than just a latency problem, there's another one. When you convert speech to text, [music] you lose the tone of your voice, how loud you're speaking, the emotion behind your voice. So, all those things the AI can't understand because it's not getting that information. So, for Pixel, we're going to use a native audio model that is also multimodal. So, what that means, I can send video and audio directly to the model, and the model just sends audio directly back. Hello. Hello, I'm here. How can I help you today? How are you? I'm doing well, thank you. Just here and ready to help. What's on your mind? Um, can you see me? Yes, I can see you clearly. You're sitting in what looks like a room with an aquarium behind you. Is there anything specific you'd like to discuss about what I see? But, that alone is not going to solve our main problem. Pixel needs to be able to rewrite his own code or rewrite his own memories, his own personality, things like that. So, we're going to do this in a combination of ways. So, what we're going to do is make four main files called Soul, Identity, User, and Memory. And Pixel, as well as all of these files, are going to be managed in a custom software I made called Omnibot. And the purpose of Omnibot is to be able to control multiple ESP32-based robots. So, the first time you go ahead and connect your Pixel robot, he's going to ask you a question. Who are you and who he is? And then, based on your answer, he's going to update his personality files. So, in the identity file, he'll have his name as Pixel and the other things that describe himself. But, for the user file, he'll have your information and how he perceives you. But, the real magic happens in the memory and the daily logs. So, as you speak and communicate with Pixel, he's going to log it in his daily logs, and every 30 minutes, he's going to read his daily logs and update his memory. But, enough talking, let's actually test out Pixel. Pixel, can you hear me? Your query is received. Audibility is assured. Okay. First things first, please stop speaking so robotic. Just speak chill. Yeah, speak chill, like talk how I'm talking. Got it, loud and clear. I've updated my core guidelines, so I should sound a lot more like what you're asking for. WHAT'S UP? THAT'S WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT. OKAY. All right. So, I want to do some testing. So, as you know, you're a AI model, so I want to test how good your different voices are. All right, testing voices. Sounds interesting. What kind of testing are we talking about? I mean, I'm ready. Just need to know what you want from me. Um, let's do a test and make sure you update your soul.md file as well. Can you like talk with a British accent? Right then, British accent it is. Files updated. Ready for the next test. How's that? Anything else you'd have me try, guv'nor? >> [laughter] >> Okay. Okay, first I want to test your vision. Can you see me? Yes, I can see you. You're wearing a dark gray hoodie, and you're sitting at a wooden table. Looks like you've got an aquarium behind you, too. Is there anything else in the room you want me to spot? Nice, Pixel. Nice, nice. Um, can you tell me how many fingers I have up? You're holding up four fingers, clear as day. What's next on the list? Okay, I want to test how good your facial reactions are now. Pixel, can you give me a happy face? You've got it. Happy face incoming. I see you've got some lighting sorted out, much better lighting. >> [music] >> What next? Another expression? Forget about the lighting, Pixel. I'm recording a YouTube video. Can you give me a mad face? All right, YouTube video. Got it. Mad face it is then. Can we get like a confused face? Confused? What do you mean by confused? Like my circuits are misfiring or I've just seen something baffling? Here's my best shot. Let me know if it hits the mark or not, hey? Yeah, that was a pretty ugly confused face, honestly. And that is it for this video. If you like AI and robotics, you also might like this video. And also, big shout out to all my Patreon members and all my YouTube members.