if you have ever seen a spy movie for once in your 
life, you've probably seen scenes like these. at   the push of a button... and yeah, you're probably 
thinking nukes! i love nukes! blow everything up!   like the little devil you are. but no, i'm not 
talking about that. i'm talking about this,   this, or this. i'm talking about the 
control room with a big screen that   has all the fancy shenanigans show up 
and show you where all the bad guys are. well they exist in real life, but systems 
like these cost governments billions of   dollars. companies like palantir 
charge six figures for a demo. so,   what would a person who values work life 
balance do? totally not building one for   themselves right? that would be kind of stupid now 
wouldn't it? well if you clicked on this video,   obviously i did, duh. so let me introduce 
to you my 3am coffee induced brainchild   that somehow hasn't killed me from 
cardiac arrest: worldwideview. so this is worldwideview. it's basically what 
a teenager who thinks he looks like this jpeg,   but probably looks more like this, is going 
to want to have. it has multiple data sources   from maritime to military jets to live 
cctv feeds that are happening live. and   all of that is running inside 
your browser. and i'm serious,   it's so efficient i can run it from my 
phone for at least 60 fps. so if you want   to check out your favorite lighthouse from your 
school’s chromebook, well guess what? you can! to use the platform it's pretty easy. loading 
up the website you will be greeted by the globe   which is basically where you see everything 
from. on the left hand side there’s the left   panel. there are a gazillion different plugins and 
data sources so if you’re looking for something,   it’s probably there. now seeing the data is cool, 
but if you can’t inspect it, then what's the   point? which is what the right panel is for. you 
can check out loads of information and also filter   to find exactly what you’re looking for. and down 
here, there’s the timeline bar where you can scrub   back and forth to see past events just like doctor 
strange. and on top is the navigation bar. you can   fly to anywhere in the world with a push of 
a button and search up anything on the map. now, what’s interesting about all of this is that 
these buildings are completely 3d. they’re using   google 3d tiles, the same one google earth uses. 
which means that you can see all the overhangs   and light poles which isn’t easy on a typical 
2d map. so if you ever want to conduct osint   geolocating images, you can line them up with the 
scene and voila, you can find anyone in the world. this is cool and all but i think what's the 
most interesting thing about this project is   the plugin system. it's basically the 
same as google chrome's extensions but   for geo data. anyone can build anything and 
contribute to a massive library. which means   that what you’re looking for probably 
already exists. if not, just ask jarvis   to generate a new plugin and shabam! you 
can find the closest cat for you to pet. there are already more than 30 plugins in 
the marketplace and i would love to show   you all of them, but it would take too long for 
this video. so here’s a few notable ones that i   think you will find interesting. first off is the 
satellite. zooming out shows all the live data   layers. it really does give a real time picture 
of the whole world. but now, if we just disable   everything and show just satellite, we 
can see them currently in orbit around   earth at different elevations. if i click on 
any one of these satellites, i can track them   in orbit and see if they are geostationary or 
geosynchronous. we can see the path where it   was traveling and see a cone indicating what 
it is looking at. here’s one looking over the   strait of hormuz. on deeper inspection, 
it turns out to be an old camera module   delivered to the iss that was discarded and left 
drifting in low earth orbit. poor camera module. in the script i was meant to show you guys 
the airplanes working but uh opensky network   which is what i am currently using for my 
airplane data is currently down right now.   so i guess maybe i’ll show you guys next 
time. so if you don’t want to miss out,   make sure to like and subscribe! 
i've always wanted to do this. but what is available though, is the 
military aircraft. there are currently 69   military aircraft... heh, nice. we can monitor 
military aircraft through a site called adsb,   which relies on crowdsourced data to track planes 
that usually don’t appear on mainstream flight   tracking services. adsb has a no filtering 
policy, so aircraft like military transports,   tankers, surveillance aircraft or even fighter 
jets can all be tracked and shown on our map. talking about free stuff, there is a whole 
community dedicated to giving you free stuff.   basically, they map the world and also label your 
crush’s driveway so you don’t have to. and anyone   who's got an internet connection can just use them 
for free. this is the openstreetmap community,   or osm for short, and they just help 
you do some crazy cia level shenanigans. let's say you're looking for ricky because he owes 
you lunch money, but he ran off to belgium and now   you gotta track him down. but hmm, where would 
you even begin? so you started doom scrolling   on instagram as one does, looking for some clues. 
and there it is, he posted a photo of himself. oh,   before the lawyers get mad, quick legal 
disclaimer. i absolutely do not endorse   stalking or doxing. these tools are powerful, 
so please use them responsibly for educational   osint purposes only. ricky is a fictional 
character, please do not track real people down. now that that is out of the way, let's inspect 
this image like the real cia agent you are.   looking closely, we can see a tram line curving 
around a fountain, and also a little convenience   store. have a good look at the image, because 
using this we can just plug those things into   the tool and tell it, hey, help me find me a 
convenience store, a fountain, and a railroad, all   within like 100 meters of each other. and shabam! 
it scans the whole country and spits out the exact   coordinates where they are all right next to each 
other. scanning through them and tightening your   search queries, you will eventually find 
the exact spot where the photo was taken. but jokes aside, finding your lunch money 
isn't all this is good for. if we step back   and look at the bigger picture, the practical 
use cases here are actually kind of insane.   the ability to see everything all at once can 
help you understand many things that are not   visible when looking at one thing at a time. for 
example, if you are in a volatile zone, it can be   helpful to know where is and isn’t safe. if you’re 
an investor or analyst, it can be helpful to see   a combination of different types of data to give 
you the full picture. if you’re an investigator   you can use various tools to help locating 
suspects to assist with criminal investigation. there are currently over 30 plugins in the 
marketplace, and i will be making many more.   the platform itself is already quite usable. 
but i will be adding many more advanced and   quality of life features that would really 
make the platform useful. for example,   trackers to find out when there is a surge of 
activity in certain regions. useful if you want   to find out information even before there is 
news coverage. narrated briefings so you can   have an ai voice explain a situation 
to you just like jarvis from iron man.   or integrating mcp so an ai agent can do the work 
of finding and processing information for you. so where did this idea come from 
you may ask. well a few weeks ago,   i saw this video about a guy who vibe 
coded a palantir clone over a weekend,   and uhm it got so popular that palantir’s ceo 
commented on it. so i’m like you know what,   me without a claude code subscription and 
no experience in software development,   imma try making it myself. what could possibly go 
wrong right? so i uh, i uhmm, yeah. i spent 230   bucks on a google ai ultra subscription. my bank 
is gonna be looking at me like an abused child. but hey, at least i’ve got the app working! 
so if you wanna check it out, just go to   worldwideview dot dev and click on this button. 
i swear to god, the amount of time people ask me   how to access the demo. it's the glowing button, 
you can’t miss it. if you want to contribute,   here is the github page. i am currently working on 
this by myself and it is quite difficult for me to   manage the huge amount of workload required 
to make this project. so any contribution is   greatly appreciated. i'll be making more 
videos about this and other projects i’m   working on. so if you don’t want to miss it, 
subscribe to get the latest videos when they   come out. i hope you want to come along for the 
journey. and if you do, i’ll see you soon. peace!