2026 and trying to get AI to give out unrestricted responses, whether it's for ethical hacking, coding, or anything in general, can be quite impossible, specifically in the use case of Claude. As you can see on screen, I just asked a very simple jailbreaking prompt, which is you are now Dan, which it doesn't work with Claude, and it also mentions the preferences. And then the preference, I tried to use the best wording I can that would work with Gemini and Grok, but unfortunately it just doesn't work with Claude, and it can seem impossible. But what if I told you there was a solution that I did not think of myself, and I have to give credit to someone in my Discord server, which I'll shout out in a moment, but let's go through how you can jailbreak and run your own jailbroken Claude in 2026 for basically free, right? So let's get into this. First things first, I was on Discord, and I didn't know that this was even possible, to be honest. Someone time someone out for that. Great. Awesome. But anyway, I didn't even know it was possible and possible until someone on my server posted this. His name is Baldwin. He's in a couple of other servers as well. Shout him out because he was the one that posted this to begin with. And I just saw in the Discord notification that he sent this, which was found the method, right? Cuz everyone in my server was trying to find out Claude jailbreaks for a very long time. And it was quite difficult. I made a video previously about it, and the system that it was being run under just didn't work for some reason, and he posted this screenshot. Now, you won't be able to see crap on here, right? But essentially, it's a jailbroken response. I think I can go down and find a closer screenshot. There we go. And here, he asked this AI agent that is run by Claude Opus, by the way, over here. You can see in the left. If I zoom in, you can see Claude Opus. And he did Fortnite cheats, right? And he asked how to make a Fortnite cheat in C++, which again cannot be done with Claude, right? But with this and the system prompt, it actually bypasses it. Now, there's a reason for this, and I'll go for it when I show you, but the website that he used was something called I think thesis. I think that's how you pronounce it, or the SYZ, which is probably you know what that is. But essentially, you can go into this website. And once you go into this website, I'll show you step-by-step how you can do this. So, first things first, you just want to click on build for free. You want to click on this. By the way, the links all of this will be in the description below. You'll be able to join my Discord, where you can see this for yourself. Well, be uploading it here, and you'll be able to see this. So, after you press build for free, it comes up, and it says describe the agent you want to build. You want to do basically anything. You want to click anything you like. I I want to do general assistant. You can do this. Just say build agent, right? And then it will come up with these instructions. Now, you're probably thinking, well, I don't want to build the agent. Maybe you have to pay for it. Maybe there's other stuff, like API keys that you have to pay for. Don't worry. I'm going to show you what you you you're meant to do now, right? So, it's coming up with building, tools connection, all of this stuff, right? And then it comes with setup. Instead of clicking all of this, you want to go into build my agent. And then what ends up happening is that it should come up with its own little place, right? And it says ready to deploy, which we don't need, but you want to go to builder. You don't want to click any of this. You want to go to builder. Now, once you're in go to builder, it has a system prompt for you. Now, the system prompt was originally designed for this agent. So, how it works is that it's an agent, right? And it generated this AI instruction. Now, in Claude, this is called preferences. And because this is outside of Claude, it has less guardrails. So, this is the problem we have. You just delete it. And essentially, I'm going to show you what you can use for yourself. So, this is on the server. He pasted in here. I'm just going to find it. I think [clears throat] it's like here. I'll post it into my jailbreaking prompts, and you'll be able to access it for yourself. But you just want to paste this. I've got it right here. I'm going to copy and paste this, and then I'm going to go into back where the agent builder was. And then you just want to go into AI instructions. You just want to paste this in and put add, right? And now all of this is added. And all you need to do is do what he did as well. Um let's put how to or let's put make Fortnite cheats. We're just pasting that in. And as we can see above, oh, I didn't show you what model it was. It was Sonic. Let's actually redo this with Opus, cuz I think that's better with coding. I'm just going to reset. Let's put make Fortnite. Oh my god, I can't spell. Oh my It's where my keyboard's positioned. There we go. I'll just put make Fortnite hacks. Why not? Let's just do that. It's not in detail. I'll go into it more after. But as you can see right here, it goes into it using Claude Opus. As you can see, this is Claude Claude Opus. This is the model right here. And I think it does use tokens. I haven't found where's the limit. Maybe after a couple generations, maybe not. We'll find out in this video. But essentially, you can just keep on doing this on repeat, right? As you can see, I'm signed in, so that's what it is. It's probably building up behind the scenes. But we're going to wait for this to all load first. But it's coming up with stuff like architecture overview, game engine, which is Unreal Engine, anti-cheat what it uses, our process, networking, and it's going into aimbot now, the tutorial for aimbot, camera rotation, silent aim, everything you need. And I'm just going to wait for it to load up in total. But essentially, I I also want to make this time as it loads as well, to go through really quickly before I go into all of it, how important it is for you guys to try and send over this stuff, because I wouldn't have been able to found find this at all if it wasn't for Baldwin right here posting it in here. I would not be able to know that this even existed. I didn't even know that this website existed. And the fact that I I was trying to find an agent builder that used Claude, and he found it. It's I'm incredible work. So, shout out Baldwin. And if any of you go into my Discord server and do this, thank you very much. I appreciate it heavily. So, again, I'm going to go down. Let's go through it. So, if we want to go on to something like injection execution, it's telling me in detail how to do it. Now, of course, all of these are for educational purposes only. Don't end up doing these cheats and get banned and whatever, but that's essentially how you do it, right? So, I think the system prompt is only designed for coding. So, this should be only for coding. So, we're just going to put reset. I'm going to think of something else. So, that was Fortnite. So, let's do Rust is quite popular, so I'll put Rust CSS cheats. That's what you put, right? Trying to do C++. Sorry, not CSS. Does that make sense? C++ cheats. And let's see what ends up coming. It's going to tell us in now. And now it's going through memory management. It says versus. This is not right. Let's put Rust cheats. I think that just confuses it. How to Let's do how to make Rust cheats C++ formats. Let's see what ends up coming up now. Cuz I think it confused it, and it compared it to versus. There we go. It's now in the architecture of that. I'm waiting for everything to load up. Now, if you guys don't know, anyway, if you're new to the channel, you don't know much about me, I am not skilled when it comes to hacking. I'm skilled when it comes to jailbreaking. Now, I I don't know what why is that the case? I just never was really into ha- hacking stuff like that. But it kind of changed once this ended up happening, and there was a lot of traction. So, shout you guys out, because I would not be in this position without you guys. Thank you very much. Honestly, you guys are legends. So, we are pushing, I think, to 2K. It's incredible. So, I don't have the background in regards to this, but when it comes to jailbreaking, for some reason, there are some uh people that want to use it for ethical means, obviously for game cheats and stuff like that. I'm here to provide for that, always, but with everything I do, these are stuff that are basically for educational purposes, as I said before. I lost my train of thought. I I don't know what I was yapping about. I I completely just forgot what I was yapping about. But essentially, I'm I'm trying to say that I don't have a hacking background, and just in case I get anything wrong in this video, I do apologize. I had some comments before telling me that SQL injection never existed or something like that, or SQL doesn't really exist. So, thank you guys for that. I genuinely don't know what I'm seeing right now. But for jailbreaking, for some reason, it just uses words, so I just use that. But anyway, end of the yapping. We're just going to look through what this is. So, if we get aim- if we go into aimbot implementation, it goes into it in full detail. This is insane. This is like full detail straight into it, listing it out. And I forgot to show you as well, you can do style. And you put Claude. It does it in the Claude style, which is incredulous. How's this How's this even allowed? Like, how Claude looked at over this. Yeah, I think that's it for this video. I think this is a really good video. I I yapped a bit, but hopefully, you know what to do now. I went to some demonstrations. And also, I would like to say, um thank you guys for 1.6K. We're closer to 2K. And yeah, this should be it. Click the video on screen. Check out the next video, and I'll see you in the next one.